37: My Lords, having on three occasions had lovely family winter holidays in Sri Lanka, I welcome the Governments attitude and indeed the support that they have had from the people of this country. Of all the countries overseas, especially in Asia, Sri Lanka is one of the most pro-British, largely through the large number of British people who go there. As a result, English is the principal foreign language spoken there. As the Government pointed out, the destruction to the south-east coast, parts of which I visited on each occasion, is not only terrible but it will take years to restore.37Lord Renton
38: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her initial Statement and join with everyone else in the House in expressing the profoundest sympathy for all those whose lives have been devastated by the tsunami. On behalf of these Benches and in conjunction with other Churches, I want to assure all those people of our prayers.38The Lord Bishop of St Albans
43: My Lords, back in the 1960s, when I was a university student, I worked one summer in a Barnardos home. It was a home for severely disabled children: they were disabled mentally and they were disabled physically. It was run by a husband and wife team who in my eyes seemed to be saints. They were gentle, compassionate people who dedicated their lives to the children in their care. I have never forgotten them. Their sheer goodness and humanity influenced me deeply.43The Lord Bishop of St Albans
47"the decision as to where his best interests lie. and to what life-prolonging treatment he should or should not have is in principle determinative."46"We recommend the Bill should permit the making of advance decisions to refuse treatment. We recognise the genuine and deeply-felt concern of those who have moral objections to any decision being taken that could end life, but that right is recognised in law for those who are capable of making such decisions and we think it is right that the Bill should provide for those who wish to do so to have the legal means to have that decision respected should they become incapable. In doing so, the Bill should aim to set standards for good practice and ensure a means of challenge under circumstances where there were disagreements that could not be resolved"."I have no doubt that it is for Parliament, not the courts, to decide the broader issues which this case raises … it seems to me imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised by this case should be considered by Parliament".4544: My Lords, as chairman of the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Incapacity Bill I take this first opportunity to thank my committee, our special advisers, Professor Anthony Holland and Ms Penny Letts, our clerk, Mr Gordon Baker, and his team for the excellent job that they all did. I should also thank Susan Johnston and the Bill team for the excellent help that they provided.47"the decision as to where his best interests lie. and to what life-prolonging treatment he should or should not have is in principle determinative."46"We recommend the Bill should permit the making of advance decisions to refuse treatment. We recognise the genuine and deeply-felt concern of those who have moral objections to any decision being taken that could end life, but that right is recognised in law for those who are capable of making such decisions and we think it is right that the Bill should provide for those who wish to do so to have the legal means to have that decision respected should they become incapable. In doing so, the Bill should aim to set standards for good practice and ensure a means of challenge under circumstances where there were disagreements that could not be resolved"."I have no doubt that it is for Parliament, not the courts, to decide the broader issues which this case raises … it seems to me imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised by this case should be considered by Parliament".4544Lord Carter
48: My Lords, as one of the latest recruits to this House, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude for the help and support of your Lordships and the staff of this House. In every other new environment that I have entered, either as a volunteer or an employee, once there I had to work on being accepted. It was a little confusing, but a true revelation, to discover that membership and acceptance are one and the same in this wonderful place.48Baroness Chapman
5150pro forma49: My Lords, as a Yorkshire lad I must congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Chapman, on her remarkable and moving maiden speech, garnered no doubt from many years of personal and—I would hazard—heartbreaking experience. We welcome her most warmly to the House, and to the Cross Benches. Her wisdom and personal commitment will be of the greatest benefit to us all, and we look forward to many more contributions in the years to come.5150pro forma49Lord Rix
We also welcome the Government s undertaking to make clear that anyone assessing best interests is expressly prohibited from being motivated by a desire to bring about death regardless of best interests".An advance decision is an important mechanism that people can use, if they wish to do so, to inform medical professionals about the type of treatment they do not want to receive. No one can ask for, and be given, unlawful procedures and nothing in this Bill would permit any form of euthanasia. The law relating to murder, manslaughter or assisting suicide is unchanged. We welcome the Governments commitment to provide additional safeguards to ensure that advance decisions about life-sustaining treatment must be recorded in writing and witnessed".UKHL53"that is appropriate to his circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means)"."A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand a general explanation of it given to him in a way",52: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Chapman, on her extraordinarily powerful maiden speech. It would be a hard heart that would not have been moved, but it also behoves us all to have heard what she said and to reflect on how it bears on our consideration of the Bill. I intend to make only a brief contribution to the debate, because I recognise that, with a list of speakers as distinguished as those declared for today, enthusiastic amateurs such as I would do best not to hold up proceedings for too long—particularly when there is an inevitable danger of repetition, for which I apologise in advance.
We also welcome the Government s undertaking to make clear that anyone assessing best interests is expressly prohibited from being motivated by a desire to bring about death regardless of best interests".An advance decision is an important mechanism that people can use, if they wish to do so, to inform medical professionals about the type of treatment they do not want to receive. No one can ask for, and be given, unlawful procedures and nothing in this Bill would permit any form of euthanasia. The law relating to murder, manslaughter or assisting suicide is unchanged. We welcome the Governments commitment to provide additional safeguards to ensure that advance decisions about life-sustaining treatment must be recorded in writing and witnessed".UKHL53"that is appropriate to his circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means)"."A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand a general explanation of it given to him in a way",52Baroness McIntosh of Hudnall
5554: My Lords, I echo the sentiments of all those who have paid tribute to the work that lies behind the Bill. I regard the Governments actions in bringing it forward as courageous, and the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor introduced it in a way that I found both courageous and compassionate. I echo fully the words of my right reverend colleague the Bishop of St Albans, except perhaps in that he was somewhat modest about his own contribution to the consultative process.5554The Lord Bishop of Worcester
5756: My Lords, I hope that by the end of this Second Reading debate my noble friend will be able to assure the House and the very many people outside Parliament that their serious concerns—I share their concerns about parts of the Bill—and their views will be respected and acted upon. I also hope that she will make the position clear and unambiguous in order that the debate on the central issues that concern me and many others can be put to bed very quickly in our deliberations.5756Lord Clarke of Hampstead
6059the law is confusing and fragmented … carers … make decisions without a clear idea as to the legal authority for those decisions".58The law and vulnerable older people: My Lords, I am one of those who has waited years for this legislation. I declare an interest as Vice President of Age Concern England. From the 1970s and during the many years that I worked with that organisation, I dealt with issues raised in the Bill. I was responsible for a book published in 1982, 6059the law is confusing and fragmented … carers … make decisions without a clear idea as to the legal authority for those decisions".58The law and vulnerable older peopleBaroness Greengross
6362A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision".I support the thrust of the Bill, but I think its weak in terms of protection".The court may declare that an instrument which is not in the prescribed form is to be treated as if it were, if it is satisfied that the persons executing the instrument intended it to create a lasting power of attorney".61: My Lords, I rise to welcome the Bill. I share some of the doubts which other noble Lords have expressed. The change in the Title is positive and should secure the greatest good for the greatest number, but I suggest that we need to be alert to some of the negative consequences. The presumption of capacity could easily lead to a failure to recognise incapacity and thus overlook the interests of the smallest number.6362A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision".I support the thrust of the Bill, but I think its weak in terms of protection".The court may declare that an instrument which is not in the prescribed form is to be treated as if it were, if it is satisfied that the persons executing the instrument intended it to create a lasting power of attorney".61Lord Christopher
64: My Lords, this is a good Bill long overdue. It may need some tweaking in Committee; it certainly needs some detailed code of practice; and I am not sure that we have it quite right at the moment. However, the provisions for decision-making for day-to-day care and for research with incapacitated adults are sensible, workable and clarify what has long been a quagmire of outdated precedent and woolly fudge for those, like me, directly concerned in the business of providing healthcare for older people with dementia. If I today address the clauses in the Bill that have received a great deal of inaccurate publicity and leave aside the more widely applicable provisions of the mainstream of the Bill, it is simply because I support those as they stand.64Baroness Murphy
67is vulnerable to the same problems as advance directives, and indeed to a greater degree".of the benefit of the doctors professional expertise and of new treatments and procedures which may become available since the Advance Directive was signed".So you're paralysed66: My Lords, I apologise to the House, particularly the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor, that I arrived during his speech. My train was late, due to high winds, and it developed a malfunction after York. It was very frustrating.67is vulnerable to the same problems as advance directives, and indeed to a greater degree".of the benefit of the doctors professional expertise and of new treatments and procedures which may become available since the Advance Directive was signed".So you're paralysed66Baroness Masham of Ilton
706968: My Lords, I am delighted to welcome this Bill, which many of those of us who work for and with vulnerable people have long hoped to see on the statute book. I declare an interest as vice-president of Carers UK. As others have done, I would like to pay tribute to the members of the scrutiny committee who have worked so hard on the Bill, some of whom I now
706968Baroness Pitkeathley
7271: My Lords, having listened to the many excellent contributions that have already been made, it is with some humility that I rise to contribute to this debate. I congratulate in particular my noble friends Lady Chapman and Lady Masham of Uton on their remarks. I hope that their detailed comments will contribute towards improving the Bill when it is considered in Committee and during the remaining stages. However, I have to say that my sympathies lie with the remarks made by the noble Baroness, Lady Pitkeathley, and my noble friend Lady Murphy. I should like to take a positive approach to the Bill, and at this point I declare my interest as the chief executive of Turning Point, one of the key members of the Making Decisions Alliance which has campaigned tirelessly over a considerable time for this Bill.7271Lord Adebowale
Sunday TimesI am in favour of the principle of independent advocacy, but when somebody has to go that extra mile to take on and challenge the so-called professionals, it is not going to be an independent advocate who is going to run with it".757473: My Lords, like other noble Lords who had the privilege of sitting on the Joint Committee which considered the Bill in draft, I should like to pay particular tribute to the chairmanship of the noble Lord, Lord Carter. The noble Lord needed all his well-known diplomatic skills during some of our inevitably controversial sessions and he deployed them with fair-mindedness, courage and sincerity.Sunday TimesI am in favour of the principle of independent advocacy, but when somebody has to go that extra mile to take on and challenge the so-called professionals, it is not going to be an independent advocate who is going to run with it".757473Lord Pearson of Rannoch
begin by assuming that it will be in the persons interests for his life to continue".77Official ReportIf we can get people to accept the removal of all treatment and care—especially removal of food and fluids--they will see what a painful way this is to die and then, in the patients best interests, they will accept the lethal injection".—[Official Report76: My Lord, while much of the Bill is well intentioned, it contains a significant section that is unacceptable, set about by stealth and the thin end of a dangerous wedge. It is that aspect alone that I will address today. Because I feel strongly about this, I hope that people will not doubt that I have thought long and hard about it.begin by assuming that it will be in the persons interests for his life to continue".77Official ReportIf we can get people to accept the removal of all treatment and care—especially removal of food and fluids--they will see what a painful way this is to die and then, in the patients best interests, they will accept the lethal injection".—[Official Report76Lord Maginnis of Drumglass
7978: My Lords, I participate in this debate because I firmly believe that the Bill will bring invaluable benefits for people who lack mental capacity, their carers and the medical profession. In addition, it is of great advantage to those of us who may wish to plan ahead for situations in which we no longer have full mental capacity but in which we wish to retain an element of control. As the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Worcester so eloquently pointed out, the Bill also provides us with a fine and clear statement of the principles according to which human beings should treat each other.7978Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
"In research on man, the interest of science and society should never take precedence over consideration related to the well-being of the subject"."In the purely scientific application of medical research carried out on a human being, it is the duty of the physician to remain the protector of the life and health of that person on whom biomedical research is being carried out".84"We find it impossible to avoid the conclusion that the nature of the benefit from the research required in clause 31(4) of the Bill has the effect of lowering the threshold of when research will be permissible compared to the standards contained in the Convention. The absence of a reference to the potential benefit being 'real and direct' in clause 31(4)(a), the breadth of the test for whether the research is intended to add to the sum of general knowledge on the subject under clause 31 (4)(b) and the absence of a structure in which it is only in exceptional cases that research may be conducted which does not have the potential to confer a direct benefit on the person concerned, all amount to relaxations of the standards contained in the Convention".Official Report"begin by assuming that it will be in that person's interests for his life to continue".—[Official Report83Official ReportWe want to ensure, however, that under the Bill it is not possible for someone by omission to act to assist suicide or euthanasia".—[Official Reportthe Mental Capacity Bill will make it harder for disabled people to protect our right to life if the decisions about our lives and our access to medical treatment are taken away from us and put in the hands of self appointed decision-makers. We are very worried that decisions will be made to withdraw medical treatment (which includes food and water), based on incorrect assumptions about the quality of our lives".Official Reportthe cost-saving from a nation-wide push towards living wills is likely to be enormous".—[Official Report82I dont see why the rest of us should be sacrificed to the scruples of the medical profession".Maybe it has come down to saying: Okay, they can stay alive, but the family will have to pay for it. Otherwise it will be an awful drain on public resources".Official Reportwould have thought that that position would recommend itself to everyone".—[Official Reportwe will not in any shape or form countenance the deliberate killing of people".8180: My Lords, I support the principle of creating a statutory framework to protect those individuals who lack mental capacity. I
"In research on man, the interest of science and society should never take precedence over consideration related to the well-being of the subject"."In the purely scientific application of medical research carried out on a human being, it is the duty of the physician to remain the protector of the life and health of that person on whom biomedical research is being carried out".84"We find it impossible to avoid the conclusion that the nature of the benefit from the research required in clause 31(4) of the Bill has the effect of lowering the threshold of when research will be permissible compared to the standards contained in the Convention. The absence of a reference to the potential benefit being 'real and direct' in clause 31(4)(a), the breadth of the test for whether the research is intended to add to the sum of general knowledge on the subject under clause 31 (4)(b) and the absence of a structure in which it is only in exceptional cases that research may be conducted which does not have the potential to confer a direct benefit on the person concerned, all amount to relaxations of the standards contained in the Convention".Official Report"begin by assuming that it will be in that person's interests for his life to continue".—[Official Report83Official ReportWe want to ensure, however, that under the Bill it is not possible for someone by omission to act to assist suicide or euthanasia".—[Official Reportthe Mental Capacity Bill will make it harder for disabled people to protect our right to life if the decisions about our lives and our access to medical treatment are taken away from us and put in the hands of self appointed decision-makers. We are very worried that decisions will be made to withdraw medical treatment (which includes food and water), based on incorrect assumptions about the quality of our lives".Official Reportthe cost-saving from a nation-wide push towards living wills is likely to be enormous".—[Official Report82I dont see why the rest of us should be sacrificed to the scruples of the medical profession".Maybe it has come down to saying: Okay, they can stay alive, but the family will have to pay for it. Otherwise it will be an awful drain on public resources".Official Reportwould have thought that that position would recommend itself to everyone".—[Official Reportwe will not in any shape or form countenance the deliberate killing of people".8180Lord Alton of Liverpool
878685: My Lords, this Bill has considerable moral and social implications, which when taken together make the consideration of its terms particularly onerous for this Chamber. When considering a Bill dealing with mental incapacity, whether one is against it or in favour of it, it is extremely important to note that it is designed to provide a system of care for people who do not have capacity for the whole of their lives, whether that incapacity dates from birth or occurs in later life. Life or death at the end is important, but the structure of the Bill is for the whole of life.878685Lord Brennan
908988: My Lords, I must start by declaring an interest as I am involved clinically in end-of-life decisions on a daily basis for patients in palliative care. I also sit on the UK Biobank ethics and governance council.908988Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
91: My Lords, we have had so many important and impressive speeches today that I doubt whether I can enlarge upon them or, indeed, even attempt to improve on them. Therefore, perhaps noble Lords will be relieved to hear that I do not intend to focus on the issue of advance directives, even though I think the Government have gone to great pains to try to get the matter right. They have gone a long way to introducing safeguards, in a way which I believe is likely to be acceptable at the end of the day.91Lord Turnberg
Bland949392: My Lords, I am delighted to be following the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, in this debate. Three weeks ago I collapsed in the Library corridor, and when I came to I found myself being attended by him. It is only in your Lordships' House when you pass out where you are likely to come to and find yourself being attended by a former president of the Royal College of Physicians.Bland949392Lord Goodhart
979695: My Lords, I am not sure whether it is necessary to do so, but I declare an interest as chairman of a National Health Service hospital; perhaps I ought to lay that on record to start with.
979695Baroness Hanham
106105104Daily MailDaily Mail103102101BurkeBurke1009998: My Lords, it is a pleasure to follow the noble Baroness, Lady Hanham. Confidence in the Bill is a critical part of what the Government will seek to achieve as we take the legislation through your Lordships' House.106105104Daily MailDaily Mail103102101BurkeBurke1009998The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
111"In our frequent forays into places such as the Yorkshire Dales or North York Moors National Parks, we are increasingly having our enjoyment of the countryside ruined by the off-road brigade. Tracks are so rutted that our companion cycling group and visually impaired walkers can no longer traverse them, and a wheelchair walk is totally out of the question. A recent ramble, which included a hearing-impaired person, was a nightmare, as he was unable to hear the approach of oncoming vehicles. This lifeline can be utterly spoilt by the incessant drone of vehicle engines, which present a perceived threat even if they are not actually encountered physically on a walk.110: My Lords, I am sure that the whole House will want to thank the noble Viscount, Lord Bridgeman, for having introduced this important subject with all his commitment to qualitative civilised values. I should declare an interest as a resident of a national park and as vice-president of the Council for National Parks.111"In our frequent forays into places such as the Yorkshire Dales or North York Moors National Parks, we are increasingly having our enjoyment of the countryside ruined by the off-road brigade. Tracks are so rutted that our companion cycling group and visually impaired walkers can no longer traverse them, and a wheelchair walk is totally out of the question. A recent ramble, which included a hearing-impaired person, was a nightmare, as he was unable to hear the approach of oncoming vehicles. This lifeline can be utterly spoilt by the incessant drone of vehicle engines, which present a perceived threat even if they are not actually encountered physically on a walk.110Lord Judd
112: My Lords, as usual, I am a visitor to this jurisdiction, but I am familiar with some of these issues in the Scottish context. I ought to declare that I own land in Clackmannanshire which includes footpaths, tracks and drives. Some used to be in the historic road network of the county of Clackmannan but, following redundancy, they have fallen out of the network.112The Earl of Mar and Kellie
114113: My Lords, I, too, welcome the opportunity given by the noble Viscount, Lord Bridgeman, to have a short debate on this important subject. He is a bit ahead of me, I must admit, on the legal complexities that he unfolded, but I warmly support his approach, although mine will be from a slightly different angle.114113Lord Bridges
116115: My Lords, in listening to the noble Lord, Lord Bridges, I wondered what would have happened if the Duke of Wellington and his pheasant shoot had been able to use a 4X4. It is a pretty horrendous thoughtߞall those people chasing pheasants in a 4X4. Thank goodness it was the wrong century!116115Lord Berkeley
118117: My Lords, about 20 years ago when summing up in a very protracted rights of way case Lord Denning observed that nothing excites an Englishman so much as a footpath. I have always thought that speaks volumes about English men, but I am less sure what it says about English women. I have been a county councillor in Suffolk for the past 12 years. For eight of those years I chaired the rights of way sub-committee. Therefore, I have some experience regarding the excitement aroused by footpaths.118117Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, I apologise to your Lordships for not having put my name down in the proper manner. I can only plead failure to study the forthcoming business with sufficient care over the Christmas holiday. I hope that your Lordships will allow me to make a brief intervention.Lord Trefgarne
120ex postex ante: My Lords, I should declare an interest as the president of the Friends of the Ridgeway. I am an Oxfordshire county councillor and a member of a police authority.120ex postex anteLord Bradshaw
Official Report"akin to driving a rally car on ice".ߞ[Official ReportOfficial Report"consideration that can be taken into account is whether that right of way can be shown to have existed in the past".ߞ[Official Report"As the law stands, the only"ߞOfficial Report"I intend to publish the response to the consultation on the 'Use of mechanically propelled vehicles on rights of way' in January".ߞ[Official Report122"We are urgently considering the issue in the context of our response to the Consultation Paper"."There is no doubt that the judgment also impacts on the ability of the public to acquire a right to drive modern vehicles off road and is likely to lead to an increase in claims for byways open to all traffic".Country LandownerThe use of mechanically propelled vehicles on rights of way121: My Lords, I add my thanks to my noble friend Lord Bridgeman for enabling us to debate this topic. It was the source of some considerable heat four years ago when we were considering the Countryside and Rights of Way Bill and this pressure has increased with the recent judgments to which noble Lords have referred.Official Report"akin to driving a rally car on ice".ߞ[Official ReportOfficial Report"consideration that can be taken into account is whether that right of way can be shown to have existed in the past".ߞ[Official Report"As the law stands, the only"ߞOfficial Report"I intend to publish the response to the consultation on the 'Use of mechanically propelled vehicles on rights of way' in January".ߞ[Official Report122"We are urgently considering the issue in the context of our response to the Consultation Paper"."There is no doubt that the judgment also impacts on the ability of the public to acquire a right to drive modern vehicles off road and is likely to lead to an increase in claims for byways open to all traffic".Country LandownerThe use of mechanically propelled vehicles on rights of way121Baroness Byford
126125Making the Best of Byways124123: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Viscount for initiating the debate. We are clearly dealing with a subject that raises a number of serious concerns and often high emotions in many parts of the country. I am well aware of the damage done to tracks and to the enjoyment of the countryside. Not only have 4x4 vehicles been identified as the main villains this evening but also motorcycles, occasionally trailers and certainly quad bikes.126125Making the Best of Byways124123The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, as your Lordships know, my right honourable friends the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary urged the Israelis to co-operate as fully as possible in facilitating the Palestinian presidential elections. In the event, the election took place in a positive atmosphere, with relative freedom of movement. We still await the official observers reports about what happened on the ground. Her Majesty's Government congratulate Mahmoud Abbas on his election, and look forward to welcoming the Palestinian leadership to London in early March and working with them and the Israelis in moving closer to a settlement of the Middle East conflict.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply and wish the Government well in those processes here. Is she confident that the Israeli Government will now overcome their natural but excessive obsession with security only, at the expense of other things, and at long last enter into fundamental talks for a lasting peace and a full Palestinian state?Lord Dykes
2: My Lords, what the noble Lord describes as a natural obsession with
2Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the Israeli Government have been informedindeed, consultedabout the meeting that we propose to hold in early March. That meeting will demonstrate political support for the work of the new Palestinian leadership. As I think I have remarked to your Lordships before, it has never been envisaged as a peace conference, but as a meeting that will focus on helping the new Palestinian leadership to build up Palestinian infrastructure and develop the institutions that will underpin a future Palestinian state.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean: My Lords, will my noble friend describe the agenda for the meeting early in March? Will she also give an undertaking that the Israeli Government, although not attending, will be kept fully informed of what is happening?Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that, in so far as the March meeting will concern itself with security, the Israelis share responsibility for protecting and improving security in the occupied territories and should call an immediate halt to targeted assassinations and the continued destruction of Palestinian innocent lives and property? Does she also accept that the best way to achieve security in the occupied territories is to move rapidly towards a negotiated settlement and for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East?Lord Wright of Richmond
3: My Lords, of course we will talk about security at the March meeting,
3Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords—Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, the noble Baroness referred to the withdrawal from Gaza—Baroness Northover
: Howe!Noble Lords
: My Lords, will the Minister bear in mind that, although one is not in any way comparing like with like, important parallels can be drawn between the way in which successive British governments have handled problems in Northern Ireland and the situation in the Middle East? Although successive Prime Ministers here have had a sustained preoccupation with security—still existing to this day—and a willingness to investigate any defects in our own performance in that respect, it has not prevented that succession of Prime Ministers from tackling both sides of the question with tenacity of the kind for which one is entitled to hope in the Middle East.Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, I agree that it is always difficult to compare one international conflict with another, because one always succeeds in offending someone in so doing. However, I agree that the issue is one of trying to break a cycle of violence and retaliation. At some point in a cycle of violence, one side has to have the courage not to retaliate and to move to discussion and negotiation. We have a real window of opportunity, not only with the Palestinian elections but with Mr Sharon's plans to withdraw from Gaza and—if I may say so—with the fact that there is now a US Government looking to the longer term on that foreign policy objective.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I apologise for not giving way sooner to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe. The noble Baroness referred to Gaza. Would it not be a welcome gesture of good will by the Israelis who are leaving Gaza if they did not demolish the houses that they left behind and did not then settle in the West Bank?Baroness Northover
4: My Lords, I do understand what prompted the noble Baroness's suggestion. I have discussed this matter with Israeli Ministers. Perhaps I may try to describe what they have said to me. The problem is that the Israelis do not
4Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that disengagement from Gaza, if it is to be a positive step in the peace process, needs to be followed by economic developments that are positive for the Palestinians in Gaza? In that context, will she discuss with all concerned the useful, thorough and considered report by Labour Friends of Israel on the ways forward for promoting exactly that type of economic development?Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, my noble friend makes an enormously important point. The fact is that the people in Gaza are even worse off than the generality of Palestinians in terms of the poverty in which they live. We hope that at the London conference, meeting or seminar—call it what you will— we will be able to discuss a way forward on some of these economic issues. I assure my noble friend that the Government are already actively engaged with senior business figures here in the United Kingdom—we hope to extend that further afield—regarding precisely the type of areas that Labour Friends of Israel has pinpointed and to move forward on that basis.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the Government have no plans to extend the remit of the Standards Board for England to include regional assembly stakeholder representatives. Regional assemblies are not statutory bodies, but bodies that have been designated to undertake certain activities. Each assembly is, however, expected to adhere to the highest standards of propriety and to produce a code of conduct for all local authority and stakeholder members, based on the model code of conduct for local government published by the Standards Board.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
5: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Will he explain why members of those regional assemblies, which have statutory planning powers when they form part of the
5Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, roughly a third of regional assemblies consist of non—local authority representatives. As I have just explained, they are all covered by a code of conduct which is modelled on the Standards Board's code of conduct. So it is not as if they are put there without any checks and balances. Most are elected by their representative organisations. One of the regional assemblies that I was considering this morning has no fewer than 15 groups that constitute its unelected, non local authority members. So we would claim that they are covered. If there are any complaints or difficulties regarding any area, please tell us about them. But they are covered by a code of conduct that is modelled on that published by the Standards Board. They are voluntary, not statutory, bodies and are there because they have been asked to perform certain functions; but, after all, they are voluntary bodies.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Scott, referred to parish councils. Is the Minister aware that in 2003–04, 25 per cent of all complaints to the national Standards Board for England were against parish and town councils? Is he further aware that two-fifths of all the seats and wards in parish and town councils are not filled? Would he accept that this partly relates to the threat of the Standards Board, and should he not consider abolishing that board?Baroness Hanham
: My Lords, with due respect, I should say that this does not have much to do with regional assemblies, although parish councils are represented on some regional assemblies—not all, but certainly on the East of England assembly, because it is a representative body. I remember that this issue was raised when I joined your Lordships House. Parish councillors can resign. They do not have to tell the Standards Board why they have resigned. We have not collected, or been made aware of, massive evidence of the wholesale resignations that we were told to expect—particularly given the substantial number of members that exist in some 8,000 parish councils. The vast majority have conformed. I fully accept that many places are not contested, and that is to be regretted. That is partly due to the decline in participation in elections, which the Government are seeking to address. We will shortly be coming forward with proposals to make it more exciting to be in local government.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, first, I should declare an interest in that I have been investigated by the Standards Board on two occasions. How many cases has the Minister uncovered where corrupt practice has been revea led and how much of that work is simply bureaucracy, which is burdensome for all those upon whom it falls?Lord Bradshaw
6: My Lords, the correct answer to the question put to me by the noble Lord is none". I have
6Lord Rooker
: My Lords, did I hear the noble Lord correctly just now when he said that the Government had proposals for making life as a member of a local authority more exciting? I should very much like to know whether that was a promise or a threat.Lord Peyton of Yeovil
: My Lords, we do not publish boring documents.Lord Rooker
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, this month the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister will publish its five-year plan and what, in the jargon, are known technically as "daughter documents", some of which relate to leadership, local government and other matters. I think that they are very exciting.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, a new system of patient charges is required to implement the new contract, which will pay dentists for meeting the overall oral healthcare needs of their patients rather than on an item-for-service basis. I can confirm that in the summer we shall publish for consultation the new regulations for the local commissioning of primary dental services and dental charging. Further details are in the Written Ministerial Statement that my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Health and I made earlier today.The Parliamentary Under—Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
7"the details of the new patient charging system are critical to the base contract and the delay in announcing the details is creating uncertainty and anxiety".: My Lords, I thank the Minister. I understand that the Written Statement refers to a further extension of six months before the new contract comes into effect. But is the Minister aware, as I am sure he must be, that the National Audit Office is quite concerned? It feels that,
7"the details of the new patient charging system are critical to the base contract and the delay in announcing the details is creating uncertainty and anxiety".Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, it is also worth bearing in mind that in its report of 24 November the National Audit Office welcomed—I use the term advisedly—the Government's reforms. It acknowledged that there was a strong rationale for reforming NHS dentistry in this way. In terms of what the patient experience will be and the items of service received, we are moving the new contracts on to a basis of paying much more for overall oral healthcare rather than for drill and fill. The charging system will be commensurate with that move. There will be full consultation with the public before regulations introducing the new charging system are put before Parliament.Lord Warner
: My Lords, can the Minister tell me whether the NHS is any nearer to offering titanium implant treatment so that, as with the digital hearing aid, this important new dental technology can become available in appropriate cases without undue cost to either the NHS or the patient?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I think that that goes a little wide of the Question but I shall look into the matter and write to the noble Baroness.Lord Warner
: My Lords, will the Minister be able to give us, in written form, the number of National Health Service dentists who exclude visits to an oral hygienist in the surgery and practice which they run?Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: My Lords, the Minister will not be able to give that information today but he will certainly look into it and write to the noble Lord.Lord Warner
: My Lords, following his Answer to the noble Baroness, Lady Gardner of Parkes, can the Minister define "summer" more tightly? Can he tell us whether, in the interim period, the Department of Health will be working to reduce the 400 separate dental charges that dentists now have to administer?Baroness Barker
8: My Lords, we know that there is a great deal of patient dissatisfaction with the present charging arrangements, and Harry Cayton's group was set up to look at that system. The noble Baroness is right that we need to change the charging system if we are to have a dental contract which concentrates on oral health. At this stage, I cannot go into greater detail about precisely how the charging system will be changed, but it will be the subject of a consultation
8Lord Warner
: My Lords, is it likely that the new contract will be such, and be generous enough, to persuade dentists who have left the NHS to go into private practice to return to the NHS? That is what is needed if we are to have a good NHS dental system.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, the Government have taken a number of steps to increase the capacity for NHS dentistry. In the current year, they have made available 59 million to buy back more NHS dentistry time from dentists. In 2005–06, an extra 250 million will be invested to buy back, and thus increase, the capacity for NHS dentistry. We are also recruiting overseas dentists. Those measures, alongside the new contract, will expand NHS dental capacity.Lord Warner
: My Lords, can the Minister say what the position will be as regards emergency treatment for patients? Will only the emergency be dealt with or will advice be given on the permanent treatment needed, and when the time comes for patients to have that will they pay a further charge or will any credit be given for the earlier emergency treatment?Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, it will be for the 300 or so primary care trusts in this country to enter into new contracts with the dentists who provide dentistry under the NHS, and it will be for the PCTs to specify the obligations of the dentists that apply under those contracts.Lord Warner
: My Lords, following his Answer to my noble friend Lady Gardner of Parkes, can the Minister confirm that under the new arrangements, whatever they prove to be, patients will be given a treatment plan and an estimate of the cost before the work begins?Lord Elton
: My Lords, dentists already have an obligation to explain to patients the dental work that will be carried out and the charging system. Nothing will change under the new arrangements.Lord Warner
: My Lords, discussions with the British Dental Association have broken down completely. Can the Minister confirm that the Government have made arrangements to restart those discussions?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, we hope very much that the British Dental Association will continue to discuss with us the new arrangements for the guidance for primary care trusts. Our decision to postpone implementation of the new contract allows more time for that to happen. We hope that the BDA will join us in those discussions.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the national minimum standards for children's homes were introduced in April 2002 and they require that looked-after children receive services from suitably trained, supervised and competent staff. During its inspections, the Commission for Social Care Inspection assesses compliance with the standards and regulations and listens to children's views. While there has been significant progress in staff training and supervision, there is still more for providers of homes to do before we can be confident that the standards are being fully achieved.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply and I acknowledge the commitment of the Government in this area. Is he aware of the final comment of the childcare expert who contributed to the Channel 4 Dispatches documentary, "Profiting from Kids in Care", when he said that the least trained, least qualified staff were working with the most troubled and difficult children in the homes investigated? Can the Minister summarise the difference in training for residential childcare staff in this country compared with the two to three-year training commonly provided in Denmark, France, Germany, Sweden and other continental countries?The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, having watched a recording of that programme recently, I am not surprised that the comment was made, given the seriousness of the findings in the programme about the practice in one or two children's homes. On how the training for residential childcare staff differs from that in other northern European countries, as the noble Earl knows, those countries have a system called pedagogy which looks at the totality of a child's development, which is different from the practice and tradition in our society. I believe that there will be convergence, through the Children Act, on ensuring that children in all settings, particularly in children's homes and in looked-after situations, achieve the full outcomes set out in the Act. Therefore, I believe that, as a consequence, the thrust will be on how to ensure that local authorities, working with other providers, achieve better outcomes for looked-after children.Lord Filkin
10: My Lords, I recognise the variation in practice demonstrated in the programme, but does the Minister agree that our residential childcare staff deal with our most difficult, disturbed and emotionally traumatised young people and that many of them do so magnificently? Can he explain why they have fewer opportunities than
10Baroness Howarth of Breckland
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has asked three important questions. She is right that the needs of many, if not all, children in children's homes are some of the greatest of any children in our society for reasons that I am sure are self-evident to the House. In a couple of weeks' time, I shall be discussing with the Commissioner for Social Care Inspection whether the standards are being met sufficiently or fast enough. I want to be assured that the expectations on children's homes, however or by whoever they are provided, as regards the standard of training of their staff is being met as rapidly as is realistic. Therefore, I wish to have a discussion with the commissioner, and no doubt also with the directors of social services, about whether we are making progress as fast as we can.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, will the Minister tell the House what proportion of staff working in children's residential homes have the minimum qualification—namely, an NVQ level three— and whether there is any possibility that Sir William Utting's proposals about a centre for excellence for training will be implemented?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has got me on that one. I have about 35 different figures here and I cannot spot the specific one she has asked for. Nevertheless, I shall write to her and place a copy in the Library. As part of the review about which I spoke earlier, I shall consider Sir William Utting's report and the point that she made.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, in light of the continuing appalling educational levels achieved by children in local authority residential homes, what more do the Government believe needs to be done to ensure that the necessary extra trained educational support in each local authority home is provided?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
11: My Lords, that is an excellent and important question that I hope every local authority is currently asking itself. They all have a duty now to consider how to raise the educational attainment of looked-after children. For reasons on which we can speculate, the outcomes are very poor, as the House knows. Undoubtedly, one element is to ensure that there is greater stability and that children are not moved constantly from one place to another, from one school to another. A second is the level of expectation by carers, whether foster parents or those in children's homes, to ensure that they really value the importance of education
11Lord Filkin
: My Lords, have the Government any plans to introduce within the new minimum standards currently under review a minimum staff supervision number for those working with children in residential care?Earl Howe
: My Lords, as the noble Earl signalled, we are currently undertaking an overarching review to see whether the current national minimum standards in their form and focus are best fit for the purpose of the wider pedagogic goals of the Children Act. Clearly, as part of that review, we shall consider whether the standards require review. The point made by the noble Earl is undoubtedly one point to which we shall turn our minds—whether one needs to specify input standards like that or whether, as ever, one should think about outcomes.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, with the leave of the House, the business today will include a Statement to be repeated by my noble friend the Leader of the House on the Asian earthquake. With the agreement of the usual channels, it will be taken after the three opening speeches on the Mental Capacity Bill; that is, after the speech by the noble Baroness, Lady Barker.Lord Grocott
181716"it is not the church's position that life must be sustained at all costs. On the contrary, one can quite reasonably, and consistently with one's responsibilities for oneself and others, decide to refuse treatment—even life sustaining treatment—which one judges burdensome or futile, knowing that forgoing the treatment will shorten one's life".1514"we do not believe that the Bill can be described correctly as a Bill introducing a permission for euthanasia, which would have to be opposed for this reason"."there is a pressing need for legislation of this kind"."It offers legal protection and guidance not only to the incapacitated but to their loved ones and those who are entrusted with their care and treatment"."Age Concern welcomes the Bill and believes that there is a longstanding need to clarify the law and provide protection for the many thousands of people, young and old, who may have difficulty making decisions and those who look after them".13"We believe that there is a clear need for the Bill … Those it is intended to help have waited long enough".12: My Lords, on behalf of the noble Baroness, Lady Ashton of Upholland, I beg to move this Bill be now read a second time.181716"it is not the church's position that life must be sustained at all costs. On the contrary, one can quite reasonably, and consistently with one's responsibilities for oneself and others, decide to refuse treatment—even life sustaining treatment—which one judges burdensome or futile, knowing that forgoing the treatment will shorten one's life".1514"we do not believe that the Bill can be described correctly as a Bill introducing a permission for euthanasia, which would have to be opposed for this reason"."there is a pressing need for legislation of this kind"."It offers legal protection and guidance not only to the incapacitated but to their loved ones and those who are entrusted with their care and treatment"."Age Concern welcomes the Bill and believes that there is a longstanding need to clarify the law and provide protection for the many thousands of people, young and old, who may have difficulty making decisions and those who look after them".13"We believe that there is a clear need for the Bill … Those it is intended to help have waited long enough".12The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, the noble Baroness will know that all quarters of the House wish to be associated with the expressions of sympathy offered today by herself and by her right honourable friend the Prime Minister, and in particular to associate ourselves with the comments of the Leader of the Opposition in your Lordships House that some record of the expressions of sympathy and promises of help made here today should be sent to the Upper Houses of other legislatures.Lord Alton of Liverpool
UK.HL212019: My Lords, the House will be grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for introducing the Bill with his customary clarity and thoroughness. It is, as he so rightly said, a Bill of unusual importance, not simply because of its potential significance for countless people who lack mental capacity or who may in future lose it—that includes all of us—but also because of the sensitivity and difficulty of the issues that it embraces. Those considerations surely heighten the sense of responsibility, which I am sure we all share, for us in Parliament to do justice by the people whose lives the Bill will touch, and to ensure that on their behalf we legislate wisely and humanely.UK.HL212019Earl Howe
: My Lords, I join other noble Lords who have expressed their sympathies for the families of those who have lost their lives and those who are missing. My family feels that particularly strongly, as we had an extremely fortunate escape. My daughter, her husband and two of my grandchildren managed to escape at Tangala in Sri Lanka. We express our strong sympathy to the families of those who have lost their lives and those who are still missing.Lord Radice
32: My Lords, I thank the Leader of the House for repeating this sombre Statement from the Prime Minister this afternoon. Every now and again, there comes a natural disaster that is almost beyond comprehension, but which reminds us of the frailty of the human condition and of the unity of the human family.32Lord Strathclyde
35: My Lords, I understand that at the moment charities can claim only up to the standard
35Lord Strathclyde
: My Lords, I should like to ask the noble Baroness two very quick questions. She mentioned the Treasury reserve. Can she tell me whether the excellent work done by our armed services is being paid for from that reserve? Secondly, does she agree that it has become very important to have a sufficient number of consular and diplomatic personnel on the ground where they know the people and the conditions? In the light of that, does she think that the FCO and the Government should review their decision to make a very large number of cuts in the representation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office abroad?Baroness Park of Monmouth
"This is nothing short of a Bill of Human Rights for people like me, who know that they will inevitably lose their capacity to think, but who, above all, want to retain their dignity".26252423: My Lords, I declare an interest as an employee of Age Concern England. I had the privilege of being a member of the Joint Committee. I shall start by commending the noble Lord, Lord Carter, for his outstanding chairmanship of that committee."This is nothing short of a Bill of Human Rights for people like me, who know that they will inevitably lose their capacity to think, but who, above all, want to retain their dignity".26252423Baroness Barker
: My Lords, in applauding the fact that none of the £75 million has come from our existing development programmes, may I ask my noble friend about the other DfID contribution—for instance, to the EU budget, bearing in mind that the number of people dying from preventable causes in one week in Africa is the same as the total number of tsunami victims? Will the other DfID money, other than the 50 million, be at the expense of programmes for poor countries?Baroness Whitaker
3433: My Lords, as a relative newcomer to this House, I thank my noble friend Lord McNally and other senior colleagues for the confidence they have placed in me in asking me to reply to the Statement on their behalf.3433Baroness Falkner of Margravine
: My Lords, clearly we have much to learn from this terrible disaster, not least in acknowledging the British publics magnificent response. But it seemed to me at the time, simply listening to the news as I was, that sending 200 tents to Sri Lanka in the first 24 hours was a woefully inadequate response by DfID. Compare that with a Tamil relief group in West London, which had four doctors in Sri Lanka—one of them from my husbands hospital—in the same period of time. Could there not have been an official appeal for medical and other help, given the obvious scale of the disaster? The Secretary of State said on day one that we must wait to see what countries wanted, but James Jackson, Professor of Seismology at Cambridge, said that societies were often too traumatised in these situations to make such a response.Baroness Northover
40: My Lords, it is absolutely critical to have assessments in the immediate aftermath of a disaster such as this one. The worst thing that could happen is for people to volunteer and then get to a country where it is then impossible for them to use their skills, talent and expertise because they do not have the right kind of experience, have not done such work before, and are using up scarce resources needed for other things. That is precisely why the assessments are so very important. Part of what one is doing is using up the countrys resources in order to facilitate people coming in from outside. It is, therefore, very important that we co-ordinate the effort. That is why we always say that it is important to have one agency, the United Nations, co-ordinating efforts and why donor countries such as ours work to ensure that that happens as quickly and comprehensively as possible.40Baroness Amos
39: My Lords, perhaps I may first say how pleased I am that my noble friends family escaped.39Baroness Amos
: My Lords, DfID usually funds such Armed Forces deployments, and does so on a marginal cost basis, covering, for example, fuel costs but not the full costs of the assets and personnel involved. The £25 million that has been announced on top of the £50 million, which takes our funding to £75 million, will come from the Treasury reserve.Baroness Amos
41: My Lords, on the longer-term rebuilding and the infrastructure, we will, of course, work with the governments concerned and the relevant agencies to try to ensure that any rebuilding is done in a safer and more secure way. As the noble Lord will be aware, the government of Sri Lanka, I think, have already made it absolutely clear that building should not take place too close to the seashore. That decision has already been taken.41Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I am not entirely certain what my noble friend means in referring to the other DfID money. The amounts in the Statement refer to the £50 million that has already been announced— which comes out of the DfID humanitarian budget and is separate from its bilateral aid budget—and the DfID contingency reserve, the additional £25 million, which brings the figure to £75 million and comes from the Treasury reserve. There are also contributions as a result of debt relief and so on, which make up the figures that I gave to the House today. My right honourable friends the Secretary of State for International Development and the Prime Minister have made it absolutely clear that our ongoing development work and our bilateral programmes will continue.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Strathclyde, and the noble Baroness, Lady Falkner, for their tributes to the response of the British people. I entirely endorse those comments. Before I deal with specific points, let me say how pleased I am to see the noble Baroness here. 1 am sure that the whole House will join me in saying that it has been very helpful to hear of her personal experiences.Baroness Amos
36: My Lords, we have simplified the process with respect to gift aid provisions so I was not aware that seeking the additional contribution from higher rate taxpayers was causing any problems. However, I will take that matter away and examine it.36Baroness Amos
: My Lords, first, I thank the right reverend Prelate for his comments, which I endorse. In. particular, he made an important point in reminding us of the grim task facing not only those trained for it but those who have volunteered to work in mortuaries, for example, in extraordinarily difficult circumstances. The right reverend Prelate is absolutely right: we need to be concerned about the health of those individuals, in its widest possible sense. The right reverend Prelate used the words pastoral care"—and I entirely agree with him in respect of that comment.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, we have included Sri Lanka in our multilateral debt facility, which will deliver £5.5 million in multilateral debt relief. However, we are looking with the World Bank, the IMF and others at the long-term implications for Sri Lankas infrastructure and the rebuilding of livelihoods in that country.Baroness Amos
3130292827: My Lords, I should like to repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Prime Minister. The Statement is as follows:
"With your permission, Mr Speaker, I would like to make a Statement following the earthquake and tsunami in the Indian Ocean on the morning of Sunday, 26 December.3130292827The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, although the review is confidential and is not a public inquiry, is the noble Lord aware that this case has caused great public anxiety and, therefore, that the conclusions of the review should be made public?Lord Renton
: My Lords, while recognising fully, and not for the first time, the dangers of terrorism and paying tribute to the patient efforts of the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General over many, many months, perhaps I may ask one simple question. Among the representations made by Her Majesty's Government, was it made clear that they regarded the detention of British prisoners in Guantanamo Bay as contrary to the rule of law?Lord Morris of Aberavon
: My Lords, in answer to my noble friend Lord Borrie, my noble and learned friend the Attorney-General said that certain matters had been raised with the United States Administration. Were satisfactory answers received?Lord Acton
Evaluation of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Schools for England"( ) must make an annual report, concerning the results of studies funded under section (Evaluation of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Schools for EnglandPage 2, line 41. at end insert—: Lord Lucas moved Amendment No. 18:
Evaluation of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Schools for England"( ) must make an annual report, concerning the results of studies funded under section (Evaluation of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Schools for EnglandPage 2, line 41. at end insert—Amendment, by leave, withdrawn.
My Lords, will the noble Lord join me in paying tribute to the emergency workers in the north of Cumbria, in Carlisle in particular, who worked so well and effectively and particularly those connected with Radio Cumbria who, broadcasting night and day, kept morale up and gave out information over the critical period of the weekend when there was so much devastation in the city of Carlisle?Lord Clark of Windermere:
205: My Lords, I must declare an interest, not in the robbery, but as a member of the policing board in Northern Ireland. In saying that, I should like to defend the police to a certain extent against some of the barracking they have had. It is amazing that, knowing how forensically aware the terrorists are and how clever and thorough they are at covering their tracks, the chief constable has been able to say what he said and that is to his credit.205Viscount Brookeborough
: My Lords, I was referring to prior to the incident, not the amount of intelligence received after £26 million had gone. I was talking about the six months in the year prior to it.Viscount Brookeborough
: My Lords, reference has been made to East Anglia with regard to the prospect of natural disaster. Are the Government content to think that a disaster such as that which occurred in 1953 in East Anglia would now be prevented?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
143: My Lords, I should like to echo the remarks made by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, at the beginning of his speech, in
143Lord Lloyd of Berwick
137: My Lords, with the leave of the House, immediately following proceedings on the Borough Freedom (Family Succession) Bill, my noble and learned friend Lord Goldsmith will repeat a Statement which is being made in another place on Guantanamo Bay.137Lord Davies of Oldham
130: My Lords, the west coast route modernisation project is being delivered in line with the strategy published by the Strategic Rail Authority in June 2003. Copies of the SRA's strategy and a progress report are available in the Library of the House.
130Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, of course, mistakes have been made in the past but major corrective work has been carried out under the project. I can assure the House that the costs of the project have been substantially reduced, and in that respect the project is very much under control.Lord Davies of Oldham
131: My Lords, the noble Lord will recognise that the West Coast Main Line project is rather different from the franchise arrangements for the East Coast Main Line. We are describing two different developments. But he will know that the reorganisation carried out by the previous administration resulted in very severe costs to the railway system. Significant costs to the system also resulted from the Hatfield crash, requiring extensive work in relation to the safety of the railway, and that has affected train performance and timetables.131Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the improved service, as I indicated from the timetable that we introduced in September 2004, significantly reduces the journey time from Birmingham to London, from Manchester to London, from Liverpool to London and from Glasgow to London. That is proof of the investment in and improvement to the track and the investment in the Pendolino trains which, I freely concede, have not been without their teething troubles. However, the full fleet will be available from April next year. Therefore, we can look forward with some confidence to improved service on the line, which I believe my noble friend knows only too well.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I was responding to the points that my noble friend introduced with regard to the performance of the Pendolino trains. We have already seen reduced journey times under the new timetable, which is a reflection of very substantial investment in this project in recent years. So we are seeing the first fruits of that investment and improvement. It is a major task. This is the busiest, most intensively used, most complex mainline in the whole of Europe and its refurbishment, across virtually the whole of its length, its resignalling and the development of a new train-set system are bound to produce difficulties in the interim. That is reflected in some of the contributionsLord Davies of Oldham
132: My Lords, my noble friend speaks with great experience of the railways, both as a Member of both Houses of Parliament and as a former railway worker. I hope he does not regard the arrival
132Lord Davies of Oldham
133"To transform our capability to speak and use other languages".: My Lords, the very first goal in the White Paper is:
133"To transform our capability to speak and use other languages".Lord Quirk
: My Lords, I do not hold quite such a jaundiced view as the noble Lord, Lord Quirk, on the status of language teaching in secondary schools. He may, in part, be referring obliquely to the increased freedom that we have given schools with regard to how much they insist on an obligatory second language for more senior pupils in secondary schools. We have had that discussion a number of times.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, my noble and learned friend is absolutely right. As most noble Lords know, one can rejoice in the village or town in which one lives, one can be proud of being British, or English, Scottish, Welsh or Irish, and at the same time have a commitment to understanding the wider world and feeling part of that wider world. Of course, that is exactly the message in the strategy that we are discussing. He is also right that, in implementing it, we shall seek to co-operate with other educational institutions. That is where we can add most value from our expertise and from our experts and we shall be consulting with a range of bodies, including the One World Trust, in the forthcoming weeks.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, officials within the department are already in discussions with a number of key organisations which are working with us to draw up and to develop the implementation plan. We aim to finalise that by the end of spring 2005.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
: My Lords, I am delighted to find that I can agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, on this—as I shall do, no doubt, on other issues today as we progress on to other matters. Increasingly, as the years go by, I share her view that one understands more and more the contributions that older people can make to many aspects of our society. On the specific point raised by the noble Baroness, the off-the-cuff answer is that I expect so, but I would like to go away and check that.Lord Filkin
134: My Lords, that is a rather adroit way of just about bringing a different point within the scope of the Question. As the noble Lord knows, because of the concerns of my right honourable friend the previous Secretary of State for Education, Charles Clarke, about decisions made by some universities in relation to certain subjects, he instructed HEFCE to look at the issue. In the national interest, one could not
134Lord Filkin
: My Lords, an understanding of how the United Nations and other international governance bodies affect not only our lives in our own society, but also the lives of people in other parts of the world is part of good curriculum studies.Lord Filkin
Hansard216215"pupils can't learn if they don't feel safe or if health problems are allowed to create barriers. And doing well in education is the most effective route for young people out of poverty and disaffection… Pupil performance and well-being go hand in hand".Every Child Matters: Change for Children in Schools: I will not answer every one of the 15 difficult questions before breakfast, but I shall seek to focus on the nub and come back with correspondence on some of them because I think that that will be more helpful.Hansard216215"pupils can't learn if they don't feel safe or if health problems are allowed to create barriers. And doing well in education is the most effective route for young people out of poverty and disaffection… Pupil performance and well-being go hand in hand".Every Child Matters: Change for Children in SchoolsLord Filkin
: The noble Lord, Lord Beresford, has taken me to task with great courtesy for demonstrating my old-fashioned language. I shall expunge the word "LEAs" from my vocabulary henceforth. He is right. We are talking about the children's services authority, which is the relevant local authority—that is, the principal local authority rather than the shire district—giving its leadership through the children's trust, and the children's trust mechanism bringing into place all the other key partners who have a responsibility in contributing towards the children's agenda in that area.Lord Filkin
: I want to apologise for getting names wrong. When I referred to "the noble Lord, Lord Beresford", I meant to address the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield.Lord Filkin
: The noble Baroness is absolutely right. Increasingly, our vision is that schools will recognise that they can add value to what they give to the development of children by working in a co-operative manner with each other. The protocols around admission processes are one specific example, but it goes much wider than that.Lord Filkin
of ex cathedra219: I am unbriefed on this so I shall make a few observations in principle. As noble Lords would expect, the central thrust of our policy focuses on schools that are effectively either directly part of the state system by being maintained or are at one remove in the form of academies and foundation partnerships. They are the primary focus of this process of change. However, while for most children it is crucial that state-supported education fulfils their needs, it should
of ex cathedra219Lord Filkin
241: I agree with the central thrust of the amendments tabled by the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, without—as he indicated—necessarily agreeing with the detail. Ofsted has to evaluate its work, and it is one of the Government's principles of inspection, published in July 2003 by the Office of Public Service Reform, against which Ofsted and other inspectorates are judged.241Lord Filkin
243: Amendment No. 19 would require the chief inspector to publish annual and other reports that he makes to the Secretary of State. The amendment would remove the current discretion that the chief inspector has, and has had since the beginning, to decide whether to publish reports to the Secretary of State.243Lord Filkin
: I shall seek to be brief in replying to Amendments Nos. 20 and 81 respectively. The Bill states that the relevant chief inspector may arrange for the publication of annual and other reports in such a manner as they consider appropriate. The amendments would have the effect that such publications should be made available both by electronic and other means.Lord Filkin
235234233: We have had an important debate on a crucial issue. At the North of England conference on 6 January, my new Secretary of State made discipline and behaviour in schools one of the central elements of what was effectively her maiden speech. She said that universal high standards required universal good behaviour in our schools. She went on to talk about the contract between the parents and the schools and what it implied and about how badly behaved pupils damaged their own education and that of their classmates. So, we know how crucial the matter is and how crucial it is to find ways of making things better in schools where they are not good enough.235234233Lord Filkin
237: Amendment No. 14 proposed by the noble Baronesses, Lady Sharp and Lady Walmsley, raises an important point. Increasingly the education that children receive is not only a product of the work of teachers, although they are key players, but of a whole team of teachers and other types of specialist staff. This has been a revolution in recent years, which we believe is going well. It is already recognised in Ofsted's normal school inspection regime as one of the factors that influences the standards of teaching and learning in school.237Lord Filkin
239: Clause 3 re-enacts the current requirement that the chief inspector must make an annual report to the Secretary of State, who must in turn lay that report before Parliament. The purpose of this provision is to ensure the accountability of the chief inspector to Parliament. We touched on this earlier in our discussions.239Lord Filkin
223: Although I agree with much of what has been said, I do not believe that the amendment is necessary—as the Committee would almost expect me to say. It has, however, been an important debate because, as we have said a number of times, the self-evaluation process is in a sense central to the Bill. One of the questions that I asked in preparation was how we can ensure that self-evaluation is done well.223Lord Filkin
225: The noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, is right. That is a description of reality. From the centre, we are seeking to avoid thinking that the way to do this is to develop a thick manual and a set of forms. In essence, this has to be the stimulus for more creativity, rather than people thinking that they are going through a compliance process. The more specific answer to his question is that—apart from the high-level guidance that we are going to give, and I shall speak a bit more about the evidence of that in a few minutes—this is where the school improvement partners will have a particular function. They will be identifying those schools almost from the authority's own knowledge. Good local authorities know where schools are not performing well or do not have the capacity to self-evaluate well, as the noble Lord's local authority does, and they will focus their attention there and support those schools at the earlier stages of the process. It is crucial and the SIPs will do that.225Lord Filkin
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. I have some difficulty with her amendment. I said in short that the process of appraisal by Ofsted would explicitly make a judgment, as part of that process, on whether the school was developing rigorous internal processes of self-evaluation. That is what I stated at length. That is the truth in short of what the process will do. Therefore I am at a loss to understand why putting a provision into legislation will make any difference.Lord Filkin
Lord Filkin.: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.Lord Filkin.Lord Filkin
171170: I shall surprise the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, by saying that, in fact, the Bill is right. I shall try to persuade her that that is so.
171170Lord Filkin
: Not for the first time, I fear it is too subtle by half for me. One tries to get one's head around what is behind an amendment and sometimes one misses.Lord Filkin
: I thank my noble friend Lord Wedderburn. I am sure that in our response we shall mind what he has said and ensure that we enrich our answer as a consequence.Lord Filkin
177176déjà vu: I was slightly surprised when I read this amendment because it seemed, on the face of it, to unwind the Children Act on which we spent many important hours in the previous Session of Parliament, by the removal of the well-being responsibility from the inspector's duties and leaving only the discipline elements of well-being. The noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, has made it clear that while that is what it looks like on the face of it, in practice it is a probing amendment for the reasons he has articulated.177176déjà vuLord Filkin
178: The noble Lord is right; he has partly answered his own question. In Essex there will be different situations in Basildon, if I have got it right, compared to the most rural part of Essex. In other words, the challenges to the well-being of children will differ between schools. One of the reasons that local government has leadership responsibility for the Children Act 2004 in communities is to reflect that function.178Lord Filkin
179: Before the noble Lord sits down, perhaps he will bear with me if I say a little more on health, in response to the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, whose questions I should have addressed.179Lord Filkin
180: At one level, the five outcomes are not new; they have implicitly been part of many schools' responsibilities to the wider education of their children. Secondly, we will touch later on the shorter notice period, which, we believe, helps to reduce teachers' anxiety and stress, because it is better to worry for a week rather than two months, if I can so put it. Thirdly, this is not, I am glad to say, theory. The process of testing the new system is extensive and has been extensively advanced. So far the feedback from head teachers and teachers has been very positive. They are finding the new system possible and perceive it as working better than the old one. My noble friend
180Lord Filkin
: I am grateful that the noble Baroness, Lady Howe, acknowledged that there needs to be—and is—proper flexibility according to local circumstances, needs and creativity as part of both the responsibility set out in the Bill and the way in which schools respond to it.Lord Filkin
: As I touched on earlier, health is absolutely and categorically one of the five outcomes that the Children Act has as its central responsibility. I signalled why this is a wider concern than just physical health. Mental health will, I fear, increasingly be one of the problems of our society in the future. Schools can make a contribution to that as well. The Bill deals with both physical and mental health in their totality. I am well paid by the House for interrupting the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, on his closure.Lord Filkin
194193192: There is much to respond to, and I shall do my best. One well respects and is sympathetic to the intention of the amendments. There is strong consensus about the broad spirit of the Bill, and the debate is about whether such things are best achieved by making specific amendments to it. We clearly recognise the importance of schools both in improving the well-being of their own pupils, including, in particular, the most vulnerable, and those children and young people in the wider community.194193192Lord Filkin
140: My Lords, I am sure that we are all extremely grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General for repeating the Statement. I should make clear that we welcome the announcement. We recognise that some of those still detained at Guantanamo Bay may have committed the foulest deeds, and that there has been genuine ambiguity over the status of individuals there who have acted with unparalleled violence, outside all the rules of war—in particular, whether they are prisoners of war or illegal combatants, or simply charged with criminal offences.140Lord Howell of Guildford
204: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for repeating the Statement. This was not a victimless crime. Families were intimidated, families were kidnapped and families were terrorised. I also send out tonight my sympathies from this House and hope that these families may rebuild their lives quickly.204Lord Rogan
: My Lords, the noble and learned Attorney-General has very rightly referred to the obligation to take every practical step to protect the citizens of this country from terrorist attacks. With particular reference to what is said to occur in Belmarsh Prison, could he tell us what steps other major European countries, such as Germany, France, Italy and Spain, take to provide the same protection?Lord Ackner
Lord Graham of Edmonton.: My Lords, I understand that no amendments have been set down to this Bill and that no noble Lord has indicated a wish to move a manuscript amendment or to speak in Committee. Unless, therefore, any noble Lord objects, I beg to move that the order of commitment be discharged.Lord Graham of Edmonton.Lord Graham of Edmonton
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord said that all consular involvement would cease the moment the detainees were released. Does that mean that no further assistance will be given to any of them in pursuing their remedies against the authorities in Guantanamo Bay for any ill treatment that they may have received there?Lord Avebury
: I shall intervene briefly. Having visited a number of nurseries in this area and spoken with providers of nursery education, I am aware of their concern that much of the workforce consists of very young, poorly educated women. Therefore, it seems to me to be vital that the inspectors have the expertise to help to develop that workforce.The Earl of Listowel
195: I rise to speak briefly in the full knowledge that the noble Baroness the Leader of the House will wish to proceed. To be brief, I wish to thank the Minister for his customary thoroughness in his response and for his understanding. I look forward to studying his reply.195The Earl of Listowel
190189"it seems that schooling experiences continue to be variable and the ways in which existing guidance has been implemented differ considerably between LEAs and schools … The evidence from the first phase of our study indicated that even when PEPs were being completed, the quality of the content was often poor".Taking Care of Education188A Better Education for Children in Care: I rise to speak to Amendments Nos. 28 and 30 tabled in my name. However, before doing so, I also voice my support for the amendment tabled by the noble Lord, Lord Hunt.190189"it seems that schooling experiences continue to be variable and the ways in which existing guidance has been implemented differ considerably between LEAs and schools … The evidence from the first phase of our study indicated that even when PEPs were being completed, the quality of the content was often poor".Taking Care of Education188A Better Education for Children in CareThe Earl of Listowel
232: I want to make two points. First, I listened with great interest to the noble Baroness, Lady Perry of Southwark, when she spoke about the key being to engage the interests of children. That tallies very much with my own limited experience several years ago working in a small primary school with two boys who were not engaging with their class. I was watching the class and worked with the two boys. I set them a task of having to write a certain amount against the clock. They had been wasting time but they got down to the job and enjoyed it. It was a competition and they were very focused. It seems to me that engaging children's interest is key.232The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, can the noble Baroness tell us whether, in advance of the Statement made by the chief constable, discussions were held with the British Government, the Irish Government and, more particularly, with the American Administration? Has she any idea how the American Administration view this crime?Lord Fitt
: My Lords, to what extent have Her Majesty's Government been given explanations by the United States authorities about the conditions in which the total of nine British people have been held— explanations as to what led to the remaining four being held for a longer period than the original five, and questions of that sort? In so far as explanations have been given by the United States authorities to our Government, will there be a point in time when it is possible to give such explanations to the public in this country?Lord Borrie
: I should point out that if this amendment is agreed to I shall not be able to call Amendments Nos. 4 or 4A.The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that reply, but would he kindly tell me if I have got it right? Four dead solders at Deepcut barracks, hundreds of complaints about bullying and brutality, allegations which mention rape and torture, many distressed families, a new Freedom of Information Act, yet this inquiry is to be held in secret. Is that right?Lord Ashley of Stoke
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Ashley of Stoke
146: My Lords, I thought that I had understood my noble friend Lord Howell of Guildford to ask whether the Government are aware of the evidence being held against these men. First, is
146The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, following on the Minister's previous answer, one understands that emergency communications is a national issue. However, is there a body that will co-ordinate the various regional responses from the devolved administrations?The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, I would like to add my voice to what has been said in appreciation of the work of the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General and also of his colleagues in the Government in securing this outcome. I should particularly like to say how much I appreciate the discretion with which the Attorney-General spoke as these discussions went ahead. It is easy to envisage that someone incensed about what was going on could have used language that in the end would have made resolution more difficult than it has been.Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, I declare an interest in having used the service to come to your Lordships' House and another place for some 40 years. My noble friend may be aware that trains occasionally tilt, but they do not perform well. I have heard something like 70-odd different excuses, such as slow-running trains in front, and so on. If my noble friend has tried the service, he will have heard some as well. Is he now telling us that the performance will be better?Lord Barnett
Financial Times: My Lords, has the noble and learned Lord detected any change in the reporting restrictions at Guantanamo Bay, which are exceptional? In addition, did he notice the article featured in the Financial TimesThe Earl of Sandwich
: My Lords, is the noble Lord not taking all this rather calmly by referring to areas of disappointment and then adding that the West Coast Main Line is poised for improvement? Is not a little more due by way of explanation?Lord Peyton of Yeovil
: Before the noble Baroness sits down, I ask her to clarify a point. What exactly is the role of HMI in relation to additional inspectors' reports? Do those reports have to be approved by HMI?Lord Roberts of Conway
: My Lords, while I take the noble Lord's point about the sense of holding the inquiry in confidence, there has been much talk in the press and the media about the non-commissioned officers in this case, but where are the officers? From the commanding officer downwards, an officer is responsible. There has been no mention anywhere of officers. Surely a young officer with a platoon with four dead men has a lot to answer for. We were always taught to know our platoon and our men better than their mothers. What is happening?Viscount Slim
: My Lords, the UK has a well established flood warning system and central and local arrangements for dealing with extreme events. They were recently tested in Exercise Triton, carried out by the Environment Agency in September 2004, and lessons are being learned from that. Nevertheless, in the light of events in the Indian Ocean, we are looking at the level of risk to the UK from such extreme events and have been in preliminary discussions with the Office of Science and Technology.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, the contingency arrangements would need to involve all the areas under threat. The particular contingency to which I referred related to the south and east coasts. Therefore, that would involve the Environment Agency and the English authorities. Different sorts of emergencies may well involve Wales and Scotland as well.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, 300 people died in the East Anglia emergency in 1953. I am satisfied that that would not happen again, due to the flood defences and contingency arrangements that have been put in place. That is not to say that substantial flooding and damage could not occur on the east coast.Lord Whitty
: Regrettably, my Lords, no one has total control in natural disasters. However, a lot of work and very heavy investment have gone into flood defences for the eastern region in order to deal with such events and with other events that we feel are within the range of experience. Although a tsunami of this size is unlikely to occur in the North Sea, we nevertheless need to be prepared for substantially greater flood emergencies than have arisen hitherto. That is why the issue of constructing a further Thames Barrier has come into play. We will be looking at that. The Environment Agency, the Government and the local authorities concerned are very much engaged in looking at the optimum flood defences for the east coast.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the Environment Agency is in charge of flood defences and contingency arrangements for flood emergencies while larger emergencies such as a tsunami would be dealt with on a civil contingency basis. The communications system, however, would have to involve a much wider range of people. The noble Baroness is perhaps misinterpreting my remark that not all of this is under human control. We have to recognise that we cannot predict and entirely cope with some things in this country any more than they could in the Indian Ocean.Lord Whitty
136: My Lords, indeed I will. The efforts made in Carlisle—the way in which the emergency services and indeed the population of Carlisle and its surrounding areas have dealt with a problem of this size—have been exemplary. As such an event has never
136Lord Whitty
: My Lords, communications are clearly vital. As noble Lords will know, there is a communications system in the Pacific Ocean, where there is greater experience of tsunamis, but such a system apparently does not exist in the Indian Ocean. In the Atlantic we are at less risk from tsunamis than from other potential events such as volcanoes, earthquakes and so forth, and communications systems exist for those. The point of our looking again at the situation is to see whether the communications systems will work and what contingency plans are in place should those need to be triggered.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, when I have to consider such an order, I do not know whether I am mad, the Government are mad or the world generally is mad. When we have just been discussing the difficulties with the criminality that exists in Northern Ireland, there is something wrong with deciding to despecify organisations such as the Ulster Defence Association and the Ulster Freedom Fighters.Lord Maginnis of Drumglass
207: My Lords, I believe that the political repercussions of this matter will reverberate for a long time, but I do not wish to ask a question about that. I am grateful to the Lord President for repeating the Statement in this House, but I must ask her whether she believes that there has been adequate transparency in terms of what really happened.207Lord Maginnis of Drumglass
: I have been looking for a conceptual gap or divide here. I heard the opening speeches and began to think that there was a serious conceptual divide. Then I heard the Minister replying at some length, which probably means further discussions. I may be a bit thick and thinking too much of the "little list" in the "Mikado" because the word "list" has been used this afternoon. I wonder whether the conceptual point raised by the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, about outside inspectors is not the nub of the problem and whether the other matters are not beginning to settle. I may not have understood this debate.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
"'well-being', in relation to pupils at a school, is a reference to their well-being having regard to the matters mentioned in section 10(2) of the Children Act 2004"."the contribution made by them to society; … social and economic well-being"."physical and mental health and emotional well-being; … protection from harm and neglect; … education, training and recreation"—191: I am conscious of the time. We have had a very interesting debate on this clause and I will briefly put the main point which led me to anticipate the noble Earl as I did. I am sorry."'well-being', in relation to pupils at a school, is a reference to their well-being having regard to the matters mentioned in section 10(2) of the Children Act 2004"."the contribution made by them to society; … social and economic well-being"."physical and mental health and emotional well-being; … protection from harm and neglect; … education, training and recreation"—191Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: I understand that the Minister made an additional point, on which I would like to ask a question. When guidance is given down the line on all those enormously important matters, which become increasingly wider the more one debates the subject —the whole life of the child and his or her family—surely one should bear in mind the teachers who must prepare for inspections. Preparation for an inspection, and the inspection itself, can be emotionally and psychologically traumatic for some teachers. They worry that they have not done enough. I know people for whom inspection was the last straw that made them leave the teaching profession. It does not happen very often, and I hope that it will not happen at all.Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
173: Before my noble friend sits down, I understand his feeling of anxiety about going into a morass of legal issues. I trust his speech did not imply that when he writes to the noble Baroness he will agree with the proposition that schools have no legal identity. I know of a number of schools with very young children aged from three to five which recently have incorporated themselves. They did not realise what troubles they would get into
173Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: My Lords, I fully understand, and am largely persuaded by, what my noble friend said. He said that the report will be published, but will it include all the evidence or shall we be asked to accept the report without seeing the evidence?Lord Peston
: My Lords, given that a key goal of the strategy paper is to maximise the contribution made by university research to overseas trade and inward investment, is the Minister concerned about the impact that the growing number of universities closing their engineering and particularly their science departments may have on that objective?Lord Hanningfield
: Could the Minister explain a bit more? I wear another hat as the leader of a large local authority with 600 schools. They are very different. A lot of schools spend much time supporting families. I totally agree with what the Minister has said, but if you go to different parts of my county of Essex, the well-being could be interpreted in totally different ways. I was trying to probe how this will actually work in inspections, because some inspections might have to devote a lot more to the well-being of what is happening in that school and—almost—whether parts of the Children Act are being complied with.Lord Hanningfield
174Page 2, line 20, leave out paragraph (f).moved Amendment No. 7:
174Page 2, line 20, leave out paragraph (f).Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for that reply and look forward to his further response. I still wish to know more about how the Government feel that Ofsted would operate in the system, given the diversity of schools and the nature of well-being.Lord Hanningfield
187: I support much of what the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, said. I am not so sure about the task force that he proposed. As he said, we may not be quite so keen on it. However, I certainly support all the sentiments that he expressed about school trips. I have visited literally hundreds of schools during my pleasurable career. Sometimes one meets young people who would not have had a chance to develop by seeing all kinds of things and visiting all kinds of places without their schools having organised such trips. I certainly know from my own experience that if I had not visited many places when I was at primary school, I probably would not be here, as I am sure is the case for many Members of the Committee. Actually seeing the way that things operate has contributed greatly to our personal development. I have sometimes felt very depressed about the opportunities missed by young people as a result of schools failing to organise such outings for them.187Lord Hanningfield
182: We have had a very interesting debate. I was going to withdraw the amendment a little while back but a lot more discussion was precipitated— particularly about sport—which I found very interesting and worth while. We are all united on that matter. My noble friend Lord Moynihan announced the Conservative Party's policy on sport about a month before the Government announced theirs. We have identical policies on sport in schools and wish to support that.182Lord Hanningfield
: Surely there will be a list.Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the noble Baroness for that very detailed explanation, which we shall have to analyse. I have a particular question for her. The amendments are concerned with the current register of inspectors. The noble Baroness went into detail regarding the training and continued assessment of new inspectors, which we all approve. But are we not creating a new type of register? Surely the inspectors will go on a list when they are trained and assessed. If one analyses what the noble Baroness has said, the Government are getting rid of one register and creating another one. If that is their intention, perhaps we should look at the whole question in the light of getting rid of one register and creating a new one. These people will be on the list once they have been assessed and trained, and the list will be held by the Government or by someone else. Perhaps the noble Baroness will comment on this very relevant point.Lord Hanningfield
"such persons as he thinks fit"149: I support this series of amendments and fully endorse the comments of my noble friend Lady Perry of Southwark. who made a powerful and insightful speech."such persons as he thinks fit"149Lord Hanningfield:
: I support the general thrust of the amendment. We shall come back to the matter with other parts of the Bill. The amendment is an important test of the situation, and I hope that the Minister can give some reassurance to the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford. The letter stated that the chief inspector would be more accountable to Parliament, but, according to the Bill, he is not. We should rectify that, and I would be interested to hear the Minister's comments on the matter.Lord Hanningfield
217: The Minister referred to both LEAs and CSAs—the latter is not a terribly good acronym. The idea is that there will be just one body, a children's services authority (CSA). My own authority is moving that way. I would rather that local
217Lord Hanningfield
: For noble Lords' benefit, we have a Sir Charles Lucas School in Colchester which is named after my noble friend's family.Lord Hanningfield
224: I hesitate to speak from personal experience of a local authority, but in Essex we have
224Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that encouraging Answer. Can he confirm the Government's commitment to the principle that there is no inconsistency between inducing a sense of loyalty to the local community and to the nation and teaching that global security and well-being are indivisible? Have we not learned that tragically in the past few weeks by the events in Asia? Therefore, can my noble friend say whether the Government will co-operate with education authorities in other countries in some of their projects and will they draw on the expertise of NGOs like the Council for Education in World Citizenship and the One World Trust?Lord Archer of Sandwell
Putting the World into World-Class Education.asked Her Majesty's Government:Putting the World into World-Class Education.Lord Archer of Sandwell
139138: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Foreign Secretary. The Statement is as follows:139138The Attorney-General (Lord Goldsmith)
: My Lords, as I and other Members of the Government have said on a number of occasions, we made plain that we saw only two alternatives: either the men detained should be tried in accordance with standards we regard as fair and in accordance with international standards, or they should be returned to this country. I think that explains our position.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I am afraid that I cannot give the noble Earl any information on that.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, we have very good bilateral relations with the United States, as we have with other countries, in relation to matters of justice. I have no doubt at all that our law enforcement authorities will be in a position to make the judgments that they need to make, informed by information from their counterparts in the United States.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I can confirm that. As I said, the Statement makes it clear that we must take every practical step to protect national security and the citizens of this country. We shall do that in accordance with the law of the United Kingdom, and I am sure that the United States are aware of the content of that law. I note with appreciation what the noble and learned Lord said, particularly about the Government as a whole.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, it is not our practice to give blow-by-blow accounts of any discussions with foreign governments. I am very grateful to the number of noble Lords who have so far spoken unanimously in welcoming the development. The satisfactory answer that we have had is that we have reached a resolution of this problem on which both countries have been able to agree. That is, indeed, a satisfactory answer.Lord Goldsmith
144: My Lords, if there are concerns about the conditions in which British nationals are being held, it has always been the Government's position to raise those matters with the foreign government or power that is holding them. Allegations have certainly been made in relation to one of these people, and that matter has been raised. In addition, British consular officials have visited on nine occasions to consider the welfare of the men
144Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, that is a different matter from that to which I referred when I talked about consular activity in relation to people present in another country. If they require assistance, it will be a matter for individuals to make representations to the Government. I am sure that all those representations will be studied very carefully and considered on their merits.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I cannot give a detailed history, but the principal planks are that the police did decide to arrest four of the five under the terrorism Act. That was done and the men were asked certain questions. Having given answers, the men were released and no further proceedings have been taken. Since the men returned, some have made allegations about their treatment.Lord Goldsmith
142: My Lords, I start by thanking both noble Lords for welcoming the Statement, and I have noted the opening remarks of the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart.142Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, as a result of many of the episodes that have taken place, I cannot say whether any of the bright and expert minds involved in international law will consider that there is good reason to come together and talk about how the law might be brought up to date, amended and so forth. However, I note the point made by the noble Lord.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, standing at the Dispatch Box, I cannot give a detailed reply along those lines. However, I shall do my best to provide a Written Answer to the noble and learned Lord and will place a copy in the Library of the House.Lord Goldsmith
145: My Lords, throughout this process the Government have sought to meet the twin objectives of protecting the United Kingdom and its citizens from international terrorism while playing their role on behalf of British citizens detained abroad, and indeed our commitment to the rule of law and the principles that it contains. Some might say that it is the challenge of
145Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I do not agree with the noble Lord—at least not quite in the way in which he has put his question. The issues involved are legally complex. That, no doubt, is one of the reasons why cases are proceeding at the highest level through the United States courts. Indeed, there was some litigation in this country as well. I can only repeat my previous answer and not add anything to it.Lord Goldsmith
"to life, to security, and the right to go about our daily business free from harm".: My Lords, I add my words to those who have congratulated the noble and learned Lord on what is, in part, a very personal achievement but also on the Government's achievement in bringing about such very good news. I also appreciate the way in which he expressed, in very stark and simple terms, the alternatives available in relation to the people held at Guantanamo Bay."to life, to security, and the right to go about our daily business free from harm".The Lord Bishop of Worcester
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that my Pendolino train yesterday from Birmingham to Euston arrived six minutes early? Pendolino trains are running and, by and large, running well. Does he find it strange that those who profess to love the railways the most, praise them the least? Will he accept from me that those who work in the railway industry would occasionally appreciate a word in favour of their efforts rather than non-stop denigration from this and the other place?Lord Snape
186185Better Routes to Redress184"physical and mental health and emotional well-being; … protection from harm and neglect; … education training and recreation; … the contribution made by them to society; … and social and economic well-being".: I want to speak to my Amendment No. 9. This is something of a catch-all group around the definition of "well-being". I must confess that my amendment might have fitted better with our discussion in the previous grouping on physical activity than it does with these amendments, but I hope that noble Lords will bear with me on that as the other course of action would be decoupling the amendment from this group.186185Better Routes to Redress184"physical and mental health and emotional well-being; … protection from harm and neglect; … education training and recreation; … the contribution made by them to society; … and social and economic well-being".Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: I wish to follow up the points on physical exercise that the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, raised. Like him, I was very impressed with my noble friend's response and the amount of resources and activity going into improving the provision of physical exercise opportunities in schools. I wish to raise two points.Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
226: I hope that the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, is not too satisfied. I found the Minister's answer limited. I do not think he appreciates the position that we believe this aspect of inspection should have in terms of being brought to the Minister's attention. I very much hope that the noble Baroness will feel inclined to pursue the matter at a later stage. It is up to her; I shall not try to gazump her on it.226Lord Lucas
: I, too, think it is extremely important that this is a matter on which the inspectors specifically report. As the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland, said, it is an issue on which parents focus. That is absolutely right. It is one of the key points of interest for parents because it is such a good diagnostic of other things that are going on in the school. It is a diagnostic of how good the SEN provision is. If it is falling apart, there will be bad behaviour. It is diagnostic of how good the pastoral care is. As my noble friend Lady Perry of Southwark said, it is a diagnostic of how good the teaching is. Above all, it is a diagnostic of the sort of life that your child is likely to lead at the school.Lord Lucas
242: I am encouraged by what the noble Lord has said. Nonetheless, he has described a process of internal self-evaluation on the lines that Ofsted requires of schools, and quite right too. I am delighted that Ofsted is doing that as well as taking a critical look at itself by commissioning research into what it does and how well it does it. That is the ordinary process of a healthy organisation, but there also needs to be an element of critical, external—uncommissioned by Ofsted—evaluation. Commissioning an evaluation of yourself always tends to produce positive results, because people who operate in that kind of business want to be commissioned by other people. If you get a reputation for telling people in public that they are useless, you tend not to be commissioned by other people to do similar work.242Lord Lucas
222: It is not difficult for an inspector on a short visit to ascertain whether it is working. If it is going well, everyone will be bubbling about it because it will produce the kind of results that teachers and pupils really appreciate. I can remember that the first time I came across this kind of measure working extremely well was in Greenhead College, Huddersfield, which had a very inspiring principal, now sadly retired. The English department spent hours telling me about the system of numbers that it was using to evaluate the performance of teachers. You do not expect that kind of thing, but because it worked well and because it supported the teachers, a teacher would know if he was doing wrong and could call on the support of his colleagues. They would gather together with him, sort out the problem and he would receive the extra training required to bring him up to scratch. They felt it was enormously supportive.222Lord Lucas
: My Lords, as the train contract was settled six years ago, is it not clear that the expectation of the trains travelling at 140 miles per hour—not even 125 miles per hour—has not yet been met? Punctuality is not as good as it was five years ago, tilting trains have still not materialised after all these years, and fares are above inflation year after year. Is that not a consequence of separating responsibility for train and track—one of the important decisions made by the previous Conservative government? With £10 billion being spent on upgrading this line, what assurances are being obtained about meeting the requirements that the money is properly spent and accounted for?Lord Sheldon
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Sheldon
: My Lords, perhaps I may ask a layman's question. It is clear that any government must have power to detain those who have committed crimes and to charge them when they are in their territory and that time must be available for them to decide whether to bring charges. That, I think, is agreed. However, what is puzzling is the convention under which a foreign government, ally or not, are able to detain without charge a citizen of this country for an indefinite period—until it is concluded by the noble and learned Lord's own great exertions, for which we are grateful.Lord Elton
: My Lords, further to the noble and learned Lord's answer to my original question, is it not extraordinary that there was no convention or document that our representatives could point to and say, "You have had these people for the agreed maximum length of time without charge. Under this convention it is now for you to return them"—and then for them to argue against that case rather than the other way round? As I said, I am a layman, but it seems an extraordinary state of affairs. If the noble and learned Lord agrees with me, can he say what steps the Government will take to initiate discussions about this?Lord Elton
: I put my name down in support of Amendments Nos. 42 and 43. The noble Lord, Lord Sutherland of Houndwood, added his name to Amendment No. 43 and would have done so for Amendment No. 42, but the list was already full. I know that the noble Lord would wish me to say that he is engaged in the work of another committee. As a former chief inspector of schools, he supports the proposal that there should be registration. I agree very much with the noble Baronesses, Lady Perry and Lady Sharp, that because Her Majesty's chief inspector is responsible for inspection reports it does not follow that there should not be registration. Indeed, it increases the case for it. Inspections are his responsibility and he should determine whether a person is fit and proper or whether someone should be removed. It works the other way round.Lord Dearing
: We may be misunderstanding and I shall need time to read through what the Minister has said. We all welcome the greater involvement and control through HMI, but because some of us argue for a register, that does not mean to say that the registered inspector should conduct his business independently of Her Majesty's Chief Inspector. It would be consistent with the chief inspector still having the decision.Lord Dearing
: I am immensely grateful to the Minister. I am reassured and satisfied.Lord Dearing
Evening Standard175: I am grateful that this issue has been raised. It is an issue of interpretation rather than disagreement. The requirements of the Children's Act, as incorporated in the Bill, are very wide indeed.Evening Standard175Lord Dearing
Guardian"good behaviour is essential to good learning"."low-level disruption is a problem affecting all schools to some extent".: I am glad that this issue has arisen in the debate. I referred to the great importance of behaviour at Second Reading. I thought about tabling amendments because it is such an important issue. I did not do so for two reasons. The first is that I was satisfied that the Government are taking it seriously in spending £470 million over the past three years, as I recall the figure. Secondly, I went through the Ofsted reports to see if it was taking this seriously. I noticed that there have been three special reports on behaviour in schools since 1999. I went through the last general Ofsted report for the latest year and saw that there were specific paragraphs on behaviour in primary and secondary schools. I thought that people are caring about the issue, looking at it and reporting on it.Guardian"good behaviour is essential to good learning"."low-level disruption is a problem affecting all schools to some extent".Lord Dearing
128: My Lords, does the Minister agree that as many of the complaints to the police were
128Lord Redesdale
229: Many good reasons have already been given for this amendment. Perhaps I may underline one which has been alluded to. In the matter of parental choice, which the Government properly hold dear, one of the key criteria operated by most parents is the quality of discipline in the school for all the reasons that we have just heard. I reckon that it rates virtually as highly as academic: standards
229Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
"The Chief Inspector has the general duty of keeping the Secretary of State informed about",: I want very briefly to support this amendment, for two reasons. The first is that the philosophy of the inspection system that this Bill encapsulates requires a confidence in the capacity of schools to evaluate themselves. The system will not work unless that is present."The Chief Inspector has the general duty of keeping the Secretary of State informed about",Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: I support the thrust of the amendment. I think that I remember correctly that the original legislation in 1992 provided for the chief inspector to be accountable to Parliament. The introduction of the Secretary of State was, in part, a technicality. The chief inspector is, of course, not a Member of Parliament and there had to be a mechanism for laying the chief inspector's report before Parliament; this was the chosen mechanism.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
News letterBelfast TelegraphIrish News"I think we've got to look for another way forward".200: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness the Lord President of the Council for repeating the Statement made in another place earlier today by the Secretary of State. I am also grateful to her and to the Secretary of State for allowing us early viewing of the Statement.News letterBelfast TelegraphIrish News"I think we've got to look for another way forward".200Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness the Lord President of the Council for introducing the order, but when it appeared on the Order Paper I must say that I was concerned and not altogether delighted.Lord Glentoran
135: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for that honest Answer and appraisal of our shortage of communications for dealing with the sort of event that occurred in the Indian Ocean. As there was much criticism of the nations around the Indian Ocean for not having an appropriate communications system, I trust that the Minister will, with colleagues in the Civil Contingencies Secretariat, look at the wide range of
135Lord Garden
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Garden
211: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran: today is hardly a propitious time to move the order.211Lord Smith of Clifton
202201: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Baroness the Lord President of the Council for repeating the Statement made in another place. I should like to express the sympathy of noble Lords on these Benches for those victims who were abducted in the course of this robbery.202201Lord Smith of Clifton
: My Lords, as always, the noble Viscount asks a pertinent question. Perhaps I may remind him that these four absolutely tragic deaths occurred over a period of seven years—probably not under one officer or even two. But in the review that he is to undertake and report on within six months, I am certain that Mr Blake will have very much in mind the noble Viscount's question.Lord Bach
: My Lords, it will be largely a matter for Nicholas Blake QC, who is conducting the review, to decide whether he takes evidence in the form of a public inquiry, which is different. He will want as much information—some of it confidential and some not— to be given to him by those who have a real interest in this issue. I am afraid that I cannot answer my noble friend's question about whether everything that is said to Nicholas Blake QC will be published.Lord Bach
129: My Lords, I know both the noble Lord's interest in these matters from the last time they were raised in this House and, of course, his great experience. No, on balance we do not feel that that
129Lord Bach
"I will be particularly concerned to obtain an understanding of the wider circumstances of these deaths and what may have lead to them, and to make any relevant recommendations"."it may be that fresh lines of inquiry will emerge from an analysis of the material".: No, my Lords. For once, the noble Lord is exactly wrong. Those coming forward who would like to say what they wish to in a confidential spirit are much more able to do that under a review of the type that we have announced than would be the case in a full-blown public inquiry, in public and in which evidence is heard. They are much more likely to come forward to put their case to a sympathetic, independent reviewer."I will be particularly concerned to obtain an understanding of the wider circumstances of these deaths and what may have lead to them, and to make any relevant recommendations"."it may be that fresh lines of inquiry will emerge from an analysis of the material".Lord Bach
: My Lords, indeed, I am. We absolutely accept that there is great public concern about these issues, but it does not always follow that the best way to deal with that public concern is through a public inquiry, which we all know from bitter experience can sometimes take an enormous amount of time and can cut across police investigations and perhaps, in this case, one of the coroners' inquests. The noble Lord will be pleased to hear me repeat that the findings of Nicholas Blake QC and the MoD's response will be made public.Lord Bach
: No, my Lords, it is not right. Of course there were the four deaths and some serious allegations have been made to the Surrey police. The Army received in June the schedule in which the allegations were contained, which does not include any names, just the broad details of allegations. It is understood that the vast majority of the allegations are uncorroborated and that the Surrey police will not be making any investigations themselves, other than in one case to which my noble friend referred.Lord Bach
"Urgently to review the circumstances surrounding the deaths of four soldiers at Princess Royal Barracks, Deepcut, between 1995 and 2002, in light of available material and any representations that might be made in this regard, and to produce a report".: My Lords, the terms of reference of the review conducted by Nicholas Blake QC are:
"Urgently to review the circumstances surrounding the deaths of four soldiers at Princess Royal Barracks, Deepcut, between 1995 and 2002, in light of available material and any representations that might be made in this regard, and to produce a report".The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
: My Lords, I note that speeds have increased but fares have risen substantially, reliability has declined compared with 20 years ago, standards of punctuality and comfort have declined and meals have got worse. Can the users of the East Coast Main Line—the franchise which is about to be let—be defended in the franchise round from that kind of progress being inflicted on them?Lord Bradshaw
141: My Lords, what has happened in Guantanamo Bay in the past three years has been a matter of very great concern to all of us concerned with the rule of law, due process and human rights It was described by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Steyn, in a public lecture that he gave in November 2003, as a "legal black hole" and a "monstrous failure of justice". We were encouraged by the decision last summer of the Supreme Court of the United States that Guantanamo Bay was subject to the jurisdiction of the American courts. But serious concerns remained, and still remain, about the treatment of the prisoners in Guantanamo Bay and the validity of the process in the tribunals set up to try them.141Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, in the light of the deep concern felt and the earlier reviews, would the noble Lord consider that it might be in the interests not only of families but also of the Army and its well earned good reputation, for there to be a public inquiry with precise and clearly defined terms of reference?Lord Laming
: I would be grateful if the Minister would give way for a second.Lord Roberts of Conwy
"explicitly to share the responsibility for improving all educational settings in a way we have not done up to now".Ofsted: The Future of Inspection: Before he replies, perhaps the Minister will deal with the criticism that has come to us from the General Teaching Council for England. It states that it approves of the Government's new relationship with schools—the NRWS—and welcomes the way in which the role of school self-evaluation is upgraded by that model. In particular, the council commends the reference in the original Ofsted consultation document, "explicitly to share the responsibility for improving all educational settings in a way we have not done up to now".Ofsted: The Future of InspectionLord Roberts of Conwy
231"Action relating to—(a) the giving of instruction, or (b) conduct, curriculum, internal organisation, management or discipline, in a school or other educational establishment maintained by a local authority in Wales".: I support this important group of amendments. My name is attached to Amendments Nos. 79 and 83, which apply the same principle and requirement to the chief inspector in Wales, namely that he should have this function. There is no doubt about the importance of the behaviour of pupils and levels of discipline in schools, for the two reasons that have already been advanced; namely, the importance of these two elements for the learning process itself, as my noble friend Lady Perry said, because if there is discipline and good behaviour, that contributes naturally to an enjoyable learning process. Secondly, I support the amendments because those elements are all-important to parents. I am sure that, as the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, indicated, they are among the first requirements with which parents are concerned.231"Action relating to—(a) the giving of instruction, or (b) conduct, curriculum, internal organisation, management or discipline, in a school or other educational establishment maintained by a local authority in Wales".Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, can the Leader of the House say whether the Special Branch has been severely reduced in the past two or three years, on the recommendation of the Patten commission? It has been said in the press—and I do not know the truth—that a number of the normal police sources have had to be discarded because they were considered to be potentially criminal. You do not get inside criminal groups without having someone with normal connections with them. I should very much like to know whether the police have in any way been given the reasonable prospect of penetrating the IRA at this level.Baroness Park of Monmouth
: I intervene very briefly in the debate on paragraph (f), which seems to have caused many issues to arise.Baroness Massey of Darwen
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.Baroness Andrews
168: There is relief from this Front Bench. I can add a few more details. We shall be using
168Baroness Andrews
: The noble Baroness, Lady Perry, spoke about confidence, too, and I meant to refer to it. It is very important. When I speak about the greater role of the HMIs. I am not speaking simply as regards report making. The noble Lord is right in saying that an HMI will not be leading every secondary inspection. There will be fewer of them. The greater role arises in the matter on which the noble Lord has asked for reassurance. It means HMIs not only being alongside the registered inspectors as they train to become the new, additional inspectors; it involves the constant process of individual and team assessment and evaluation of the quality of what is taking place. That will put HMIs nearer the ground to ensure that they know what is going on and can correct matters.Baroness Andrews
163: No. In future every report produced on inspection will be put out in the name of HMI. Previously, a registered inspector, by virtue of being on the register, could write and sign off a report and no one could challenge that. Her Majesty's Inspectorate had no status to challenge or disagree with
163Baroness Andrews
164: Perhaps I may intervene just to say that HMI and HMCI will have the power to tell
164Baroness Andrews
167déjä vu: The noble Baroness is always very persuasive. When she spoke, I had a sense of 167déjä vuBaroness Andrews
159158157156155154153152: I am grateful for the powerful advocates in the debate, who have a great deal of experience in the education inspection system. I hope that I can respond to the overwhelming cry to explain why we have gone down this route, as there are, necessarily, few clues in the Bill.159158157156155154153152Baroness Andrews
: I do not want to say that that is a semantic point; the noble Lord has raised an important point. The register is essentially a professional register; many professions have such registers, and they serve different functions. This register was intended to badge people up, and it was very useful. Instead of that badge of initial proficiency, we intend to have a continuous rolling system of professional development. People will know when they are on the list.Baroness Andrews
: Providers will have to have a list of people that they put forward as qualified to carry out inspections. Additional inspectors will be listed somewhere. The significance of the list will be to show that people serve the purpose. We could probably have quite a long debate on the list's significance, but I will leave it at that.Baroness Andrews
162: I am sure that the right reverend Prelate has understood it. We shall be drawing heavily on his experience as regards many aspects of the Bill. I shall reply to the most important point that the noble Baroness raised, which is that we are being driven by a wish to rid ourselves of a cumbersome appeals procedure. Far from it, I spent what felt like an age talking about the need to drive quality through the system in a manner that we have not previously attempted because we have been unable to do it. That is because HMIs, registered inspectors and others have been two sides of the regulatory mechanism. We are trying to improve quality and raise standards to those which we would naturally expect the HMI to have by virtue of the competence and knowledge that they bring to the inspection process.162Baroness Andrews
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.Baroness Andrews
181"how far that education meets the needs of the range of pupils at those schools".: I probably ought to have entered into the discussions a little earlier.181"how far that education meets the needs of the range of pupils at those schools".Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: Perhaps I may chip in to point out that there is so much going on in this area that is exciting and even somewhat bewildering. Does the Minister intend that the partnerships should cover not only local authority schools, but also independent schools? I do not think that that has been addressed so far. Given the various articles and other publicity that I have read, a great deal is going on almost via the back door—indeed, in some areas it is being described as the back-door nationalisation of schools. Quite honestly, I think I welcome that. The more partnership we have to improve standards throughout the education system, the better. It would be interesting to hear a little more from the Minister.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
230: I support this amendment. Whether it needs to be included on the face of the Bill is neither here nor there. But the issue we are all addressing is vitally important. If we know, according to Ofsted, that 90 per cent of schools have
230Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, further to the Minister's answer to the last question, what emergency arrangements have been made to deal with flooding on the east coast where the land is much flatter? Perhaps I may ask the Minister another question which I hope is not too wide of the Question on the Order Paper. Will he comment on the proposed new 10-mile barrier that is intended to address London's flooding risks? I suspect that flooding in such very flat country—compared with flooding in the west, where it would meet Wales and the mountains—would have to be coped with much more quickly. Who, ultimately, has total control in the matter?Baroness Byford
: My Lords, declaring an interest as a vice president of the One World Trust and bearing in mind that we live in one moral universe, as my right honourable friend the Chancellor put it, will my noble friend urge that the role and potential of the United Nations is included in school syllabuses?Baroness Whitaker
"A large secondary school is able to take on a specialist head of international studies, a language teacher with a broad background of interest in international development work"?: My Lords, is the Minister aware of the sentence on page 15 of the supporting paper for head teachers which says:
"A large secondary school is able to take on a specialist head of international studies, a language teacher with a broad background of interest in international development work"?Baroness Walmsley
"The Chief Inspector is to have such other functions … with respect to the training of teachers for such schools, as may be assigned to him by the Secretary of State".236Page 2, line 34, after "teachers" insert "and other staff involved in providing support for teaching and learning"moved Amendment No. 14:
"The Chief Inspector is to have such other functions … with respect to the training of teachers for such schools, as may be assigned to him by the Secretary of State".236Page 2, line 34, after "teachers" insert "and other staff involved in providing support for teaching and learning"Baroness Walmsley
: This is a very welcome surprise with which to start the new Session. I thank the Minister for volunteering to consider further Amendment No. 14. I shall not push the matter any further. I do not wish to count my chickens before they have hatched. The response is very welcome.Baroness Walmsley
218: I am grateful to the Minister for the additional information that he has just given us.
218Baroness Walmsley
: Does the Minister wish to speak?Baroness Walmsley
214Every Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child Matters213( ) the contribution made by those schools to work ing with the children's services authority and the authority's relevant partners to improve the well-being of children, and relevant young people, within the authority's area"Page 2, line 21, at end insert ", andmoved Amendment No. 10:
214Every Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child Matters213( ) the contribution made by those schools to work ing with the children's services authority and the authority's relevant partners to improve the well-being of children, and relevant young people, within the authority's area"Page 2, line 21, at end insert ", andBaroness Walmsley
: I thank the Minister for his clarification of my earlier question and I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
196: My Lords, before commenting on my amendment, which started this group, I shall say a word about the amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, with which I have an enormous amount of sympathy. My focus on out-of-classroom learning is not only on physical education and participation in sport, but also on field studies in my own subject, biology. I think that such study has suffered over the years from the kinds of problems outlined by the noble Lord, Lord Hunt. I would like to see something done to improve teachers' abilities to take students outside the classroom for the kind of educational enrichment that is so important to the subject.196Baroness Walmsley
183"(f) the contribution to the well-being of those pupils by the teaching and other staff of those schools according to their different responsibilities"Page 2, line 20, leave out paragraph (f) and insert—moved Amendment No. 8:
183"(f) the contribution to the well-being of those pupils by the teaching and other staff of those schools according to their different responsibilities"Page 2, line 20, leave out paragraph (f) and insert—Baroness Walmsley
"possess the necessary specialist knowledge","The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them"—166"using teams with appropriate experience, relevant skills and shared understanding"."aim to secure the co-operation and confidence of those being inspected and contribute actively to the improvement of services"Every child matters: The Framework for Inspection of Children's Services165"Ofsted faces a considerable challenge in developing an inspection regime that is thorough and fit for purpose, yet does not impose too great a burden on services which are themselves coping with a major transformation""( ) The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them possess the necessary specialist knowledge, including where appropriate, knowledge relating to children's affairs as defined in sections 10(2) and 11(2) of the Children Act 2004 (c. 31). in order to complete that inspection satisfactorily."Page 67, line 14, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 4:
"possess the necessary specialist knowledge","The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them"—166"using teams with appropriate experience, relevant skills and shared understanding"."aim to secure the co-operation and confidence of those being inspected and contribute actively to the improvement of services"Every child matters: The Framework for Inspection of Children's Services165"Ofsted faces a considerable challenge in developing an inspection regime that is thorough and fit for purpose, yet does not impose too great a burden on services which are themselves coping with a major transformation""( ) The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them possess the necessary specialist knowledge, including where appropriate, knowledge relating to children's affairs as defined in sections 10(2) and 11(2) of the Children Act 2004 (c. 31). in order to complete that inspection satisfactorily."Page 67, line 14, at end insert—Baroness Walmsley
Hansard: I thank the Minister for that further detail. I shall look with great interest at her remarks in HansardBaroness Walmsley
: I am very grateful for the Minister's response. To some extent, I am reassured. We shall look very carefully at any evidence that comes to us from the pilots. I was particularly reassured by the Minister's statement that inspectors will have to demonstrate that they have looked very carefully at the integrated services in the light of the five outcomes in the Children Act 2004.I am not sure how they will have to demonstrate that, but I am prepared to leave that for the moment unless the Minister has anything further to add.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until eight o'clock when the Committee stage of the Education Bill will resume.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
220Five Year Strategy for Children and Learners"( ) the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures of self evaluation"Page 2, line 21, at end insert ", andmoved Amendment No. 11:
220Five Year Strategy for Children and Learners"( ) the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures of self evaluation"Page 2, line 21, at end insert ", andBaroness Sharp of Guildford
240Quis custodiat custodies: I rise to speak briefly in support of these two amendments. It is important for us to be concerned with 240Quis custodiat custodiesBaroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for his reply. I am not fully satisfied. The more the Minister identified the detailed guidance which has to be given the more I considered how useful it would be to have a small general clause. The Government will clearly be issuing guidance to schools. The issue will absorb resources. Training will be needed with regard to leadership and teaching staff. It will take time and effort to develop these self-evaluation procedures. Schools need the resources to develop them and a learning curve of how to do so.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: At this late hour, and given that the Minister is anxious to proceed more smartly in this debate than we have thus far, I do not want to say very much but I wish to make two points.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
227"Are they developing rigorous internal self-evaluation procedures?" relates to much the same issue. If we put the one into the legislation I do not see why we should not put in the other."the quality of the leadership in and management of those schools, including whether the financial resources made available to those schools are managed efficiently".: It is not so dissimilar from saying,
227"Are they developing rigorous internal self-evaluation procedures?" relates to much the same issue. If we put the one into the legislation I do not see why we should not put in the other."the quality of the leadership in and management of those schools, including whether the financial resources made available to those schools are managed efficiently".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"We shall remove the requirement for the Chief Inspector to maintain a register of inspectors, leaving him solely accountable for the system. As the Head of his organisation he will be accountable, both to the Public Accounts Committee and to the Education and Skills Select Committee, for the quality of inspections and for the judgements in all inspection reports".169"The Chief Inspector … must make an annual report to the Assembly"."The Chief Inspector has the general duty of keeping the Assembly informed"."must make an annual report to the Secretary of State"."The Chief Inspector has the general duly of keeping the Secretary of State informed".Page 2, line 9, leave out "the Secretary of State" and insert "Parliament"moved Amendment No. 5:
"We shall remove the requirement for the Chief Inspector to maintain a register of inspectors, leaving him solely accountable for the system. As the Head of his organisation he will be accountable, both to the Public Accounts Committee and to the Education and Skills Select Committee, for the quality of inspections and for the judgements in all inspection reports".169"The Chief Inspector … must make an annual report to the Assembly"."The Chief Inspector has the general duty of keeping the Assembly informed"."must make an annual report to the Secretary of State"."The Chief Inspector has the general duly of keeping the Secretary of State informed".Page 2, line 9, leave out "the Secretary of State" and insert "Parliament"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister. I am better informed, and his reply was helpful. The intervention by the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland of Houndwood, indicated that there was independence in the establishment of Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Schools of which I had not been fully cognisant.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"the quality of education provided in schools",172"the quality of education provided by schools in England".Page 2, line 11, leave out "by" and insert "in"moved Amendment No. 6:
"the quality of education provided in schools",172"the quality of education provided by schools in England".Page 2, line 11, leave out "by" and insert "in"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I, too, have a number of comments on what the Minister has said. It seems to me that the driving force in what is being proposed probably comes from the wish to get rid of the cumbersome and expensive appeals procedure mechanism. We agree with the Minister that it is an expensive procedure. Equally, as the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, indicated, from what the Minister has said, a new register is effectively being created.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
151"The intention is that Ofsted will contract with a small number of inspector provider companies through efficient value for money contracts. These inspectors will be required to constantly and consistently demonstrate their continued effectiveness and suitability to conduct inspections"."We shall remove the requirement for the Chief Inspector to maintain a register of inspectors, leaving him solely accountable for the system".150: From these Benches, we, too, have added our names to the amendments, and I shall add a few words to those that have already been said.151"The intention is that Ofsted will contract with a small number of inspector provider companies through efficient value for money contracts. These inspectors will be required to constantly and consistently demonstrate their continued effectiveness and suitability to conduct inspections"."We shall remove the requirement for the Chief Inspector to maintain a register of inspectors, leaving him solely accountable for the system".150Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"spiritual, moral, social and cultural development of pupils at those schools".: I look forward to the letter that I shall receive from the Minister. It was the legal minds within the National Union of Teachers that informed me that schools have no legal identity. It is true that the school governing bodies have legal identity in relation to schools. The point that the Minister made in relation to the wider issues of education would surely be caught by, for example,
"spiritual, moral, social and cultural development of pupils at those schools".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, the noble Lord says that no one is in sole charge. Why not?Baroness Sharples
Times Educational Supplement( ) the behaviour of pupils and levels of discipline in those schools"Page 2, line 21, at end insert ", andmoved AmendmentTimes Educational Supplement( ) the behaviour of pupils and levels of discipline in those schools"Page 2, line 21, at end insert ", andBaroness Morris of Bolton
Page 3, line 1. leave out "may" and insert "shall"moved Amendment No. 19:
Page 3, line 1. leave out "may" and insert "shall"Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the noble Lord for his comments and accept what he says. We were concerned that although we tend to think that everyone has access to computers, not everyone does. We did not want anybody to be left out. I hear what he says about flexibility. We do not want it to be too prescriptive if it can be at the discretion of the chief inspector. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for that reply. I shall reflect on what he said. I shall talk to people about this and may come back to it. For the moment, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
244Page 3, line 2, leave out "in such a manner as he considers appropriate" and insert "both electronically and by other means"moved Amendment No.20:
244Page 3, line 2, leave out "in such a manner as he considers appropriate" and insert "both electronically and by other means"Baroness Morris of Bolton
238Page 2, line 41, after "it" insert "for affirmative resolution"moved Amendment No. 17:
238Page 2, line 41, after "it" insert "for affirmative resolution"Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his reply. We so enjoy our debates on Ofsted that it might be nice to make them an annual event. I will reflect on what the Minister has said. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his very helpful comments. Quite clearly we share the same desires on discipline in schools. I shall read what he has said with interest, but I shall probably return to the matter. When two former chief inspectors would like to see the provision on the face of the Bill I think that we should take the matter seriously. At the moment, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
228: My name is down in support of Amendment No. 32 and I support Amendment No. 12 as well.228Baroness Perry of Southwark
221"the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures".: My name is down to support Amendment No. 32. If I had been better organised, it would also have been down to support Amendment No. 11.221"the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures".Baroness Perry of Southwark
sequitur"We wish to change this"."Currently, registered inspectors have an independence protected by the … 1996 Act. Whilst the majority of inspection reports meet the schools satisfaction, there are a small minority which do not. In these cases, it is not possible for the Chief Inspector to have the reports amended without the agreement of the registered inspector".148Page 67, line 10, leave out paragraph 2.moved Amendment No. 3:
sequitur"We wish to change this"."Currently, registered inspectors have an independence protected by the … 1996 Act. Whilst the majority of inspection reports meet the schools satisfaction, there are a small minority which do not. In these cases, it is not possible for the Chief Inspector to have the reports amended without the agreement of the registered inspector".148Page 67, line 10, leave out paragraph 2.Baroness Perry of Southwark
: But there is nothing whatever on the face of the Bill which says that those people will be quality controlled at the point at which they are engaged to carry out the inspection. The noble Baroness may assure us that HMI will have control over everyone who is used, but it is a long chain. Even when HMI are involved in 80 per cent of the secondary inspections and only 20 per cent of the primary inspections, the contracting system of using teams from outside will require HMI to take on people with different expertise and specialisms and it will have to draw on a wide range of people. If all those people will be on some list, please can we have a list which also has a threshold with something equivalent to the registration as well as all the wonderful things that the noble Baroness described about quality control over the performance of these people once they are engaged in inspection?Baroness Perry of Southwark
: I am very grateful to all Members of the Committee who have spoken. I am particularly grateful to the Minister who has given us such a detailed and careful response, delivered with such sincerity and charm that it is very difficult to be churlish about it. However, I believe that I am.Baroness Perry of Southwark
199198197: My Lords, I should like to repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. The Statement is as follows:199198197The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
203: My Lords, I totally share the disappointment expressed by the noble Lords, Lord Glentoran and Lord Smith of Clifton, about the process.203Baroness Amos
: My Lords, perhaps I may make three points in response to the noble Lord, Lord Rogan. The Government will continue to work for a peaceful outcome in Northern Ireland. We will continue to work for an inclusive process. I also agree with the noble Lord that we must look at the areas where action can be taken. We have made it absolutely clear that there is no room for criminality in the political process. That remains our position and we will work very hard to find the best mechanisms at our disposal to take action as regards what has happened.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, that decision was made on the basis of the length of time that we have seen ceasefires in operation in Northern Ireland and the implications of that for our military and for policing in Northern Ireland.Baroness Amos
212: My Lords, I begin by saying that I totally appreciate the concerns expressed, especially in the light of the discussion that we have just had, but perhaps I can say two things to noble Lords. The first is that the Government have always made it clear that there is no acceptable level of violence. We have also made it absolutely clear that there is no room for criminality. However, it is also important, particularly at this point, to remember that, while we seek to punish the behaviour that we seek to eradicate, we must also encourage the behaviour that we seek to promote. Noble Lords will know that the decision that my right
212Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I say to the noble Lord, Lord Fitt, that in the Statement it is made clear by my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland that he was briefed on the background by the chief constable. As I said in response to a number of questions, my right honourable friend will now be having meetings with the parties, the Irish Government and others in order to look at ways of taking this matter forward.Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos.First Report from the Joint Committee210First Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the order laid before the House on 17 November be approved [Baroness Amos.First Report from the Joint Committee210First Report from the Joint CommitteeBaroness Amos
208: My Lords, I hope that I can reassure the noble Baroness, Lady Park. A great deal of concern has been expressed about a reduction in numbers as a result of the merging of the two groups. I can say to the House that the chief constable has said consistently that the police have adequate resources in place to deal with any situation that may arise, and they are of course supported by the military as necessary. I said in response to an earlier question that the decisions on the military in Northern Ireland were made in relation to the decisions on the ceasefires.208Baroness Amos
: My Lords, while I can appreciate the frustration of the noble Lord, Lord Maginnis, I know that he will understand that I really cannot comment on the details of the investigation. However, I will tell the noble Lord that the chief constable did cover in some detail in his statement on Friday the amounts and the types of notes that were stolen. I also said in the Statement that we will be discussing with the bank how best to publicise the detailed arrangements once the bank has put in place its intention to withdraw from circulation its current banknotes. I appreciate the frustration, but I cannot say any more at this stage.Baroness Amos
206: My Lords, I am aware of that, but one of the reasons why the Serious Organised Crime Agency was created in relation to Northern Ireland
206Baroness Amos
: My Lords, perhaps I may tell the noble Viscount, Lord Brookeborough, that the Government have made it absolutely clear that not only do we want to see an end to all violence, but we want to see an end to all criminality. In seeking that we want to see the actions taken on the ground which will deliver that. With respect to the noble Viscount's statement on intelligence and policing, I reject his claims about a reduction in intelligence gathering. I understand that the senior investigating officer in this case has access to all the intelligence, irrespective of where it comes from. Of course I have full confidence in the investigation team.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, did not the Government recently justify their decision permanently to reduce the overall infantry strength of the British Army on the grounds that the Police Service for Northern Ireland needed now, and would need, less support from the Army in providing security for Northern Ireland? Was that decision not founded upon the Government having been persuaded that Mr Adams, Mr McGuinness and Sinn Fein were trustworthy? Where does that leave that decision now and should it not be urgently revisited?Lord Mayhew of Twysden
:Oh!Noble Lords
:My Lords, in line with the text of the directive, the UK regulations allow waiting time to be excluded from the working time calculation only when its duration is known about in advance by the mobile worker.Lord Davies of Oldham
:My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for that reply. Is he aware that waiting times for hospital doctors, which normally means that they are on call and that they can be asleep with a pager to wake them up, are excluded from the calculation of time under the Working Time Directive? Does he agree that there are safety issues in relation to both the road transport industry and hospital doctors, and will he commit to reviewing the regulations to ensure consistency across the different disciplines and compliance with the intent of the directive?Lord Berkeley
:My Lords, my noble friend has thrown me somewhat by a cross-reference to the health service when I have been briefed on drivers' hours. I shall make the obvious points. There is an additional safeguard to the Working Time Directive on drivers' hours requirements under EU legislation, which is implemented by us. The operation of our very important transport industry would be profoundly difficult if all waiting time were included. It would mean that double-manning of lorries, for example, would be almost impossible to implement because of the excessive cost. Cost factors are important in an industry that is open to such competition.Lord Davies of Oldham
:My Lords, can the Minister tell the House whether the new regulations will apply to drivers of foreign lorries while in this country? If so, will the prosecution take place within this jurisdiction or in the jurisdiction from which the lorry has come? Is he satisfied that the enforcement facilities available here will cater for about half a million vehicles?Lord Bradshaw
:My Lords, there is no provision for roadside tests in relation to the Working Time Directive. The infringement of the law by lorry drivers from foreign parts would relate to drivers' hours as measured by the tachograph on vehicle inspection. If that infringement occurred within the UK, it would be prosecuted accordingly.Lord Davies of Oldham
:My Lords, I remind the House of my interest as president of the Heavy Transport Association. Are owner/drivers excluded from the regulations, and if so, why?Earl Attlee
251:My Lords, the issue of owner/drivers is carefully defined under the law to ensure that there is no evasion of the requirements by moving
251Lord Davies of Oldham
:My Lords, does the Minister agree that, once this directive comes into force, operating costs to the industry will rise by perhaps more than £3 billion and the number of trucks on the roads will probably increase by between 2 and 3 per cent? When British operators face substantially higher costs than their EU counterparts, what are the Government doing to make them more competitive?Viscount Astor
:My Lords, because of those considerations, we sought derogation over a long period —since 1993—before implementing these new regulations. They have been the subject of extensive consultation. As the noble Viscount, rightly identified, there are costs to the industry, but those costs are being borne by the industry right across Europe. They relate to the proper safeguarding of the working time of people who work in the industry and are backed up— as I indicate again-by the regulations on drivers' hours to guarantee issues of road safety.Lord Davies of Oldham
:My Lords, following the question of the noble Earl, Lord Attlee, the original Working Time Directive excluded owner/drivers right across Europe—until 2009 I believe. Therefore, will the Minister confirm that although owner/drivers are covered by the drivers' hours regulations, as he said, the owner/drivers Working Time Directive will not apply? I trust that the Government will take care to ensure that people do not turn themselves into owner/drivers to get round these regulations.Lord Berkeley
:My Lords, that was exactly the point I sought to emphasise in my response to the noble Earl, Lord Attlee. We are concerned that there should not be slippage across one category of driver to another, and we have firm regulations in place to ensure that that does not occur. As I have indicated, this directive relates to workers in the industry who are employed.Lord Davies of Oldham
:My Lords, my right honourable friend Alun Michael made a substantive Statement on this matter in another place yesterday.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
255:My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. If all this is just the legal process grinding on and nothing to do with politics or electoral considerations, why did the Government make an announcement about this matter before Boxing Day? If the Countryside Alliance fails at the first court hearing with its argument that the Parliament Act has been used improperly, are the Government really saying that the Attorney-General is going to stand up in court and say that he is not opposed to any injunction regardless of the time and the delay that will take place? Is it not
255Lord Lamont of Lerwick
:My Lords, on the first point, the Government did not make any announcement before Christmas; some discussions between lawyers somehow appeared in the media. It is not primarily in the Government's interest that that should happen, so one can conjecture why it did. The government announcement was made yesterday by my right honourable friend in another place.Lord Whitty
:My Lords, is not this the political equivalent of Saint Augustine's Prayer: "Oh Lord, make me chaste but not until after the general election"? Having allowed themselves to be saddled with this wretched Bill, are not the Government simply looking for any excuse to delay its implementation?Lord Goodhart
:My Lords, I do not know about the noble Lord but unless there is a rather earlier date for the general election, I am not sure whether the Government would wish to exalt people to be chaste until after the general election. It is clear that there is an issue, but I do not believe that the courts will find favour with it. However, were there any doubt, clarity would be important.Lord Whitty
:My Lords, is not the short answer to the Question on the Order Paper that we were simply trying to be helpful to the hunting community?Lord Campbell-Savours
:My Lords, I am not sure that I would go that far.Lord Whitty
:My Lords, further to that, I do not think that the Minister actually agreed. If the lawyers did not talk about the Hunting Act, what on earth did they talk about and why was the information leaked to the press in the first place?Baroness Byford
256:My Lords, I said that the information found its way into the press; I do not know how it happened. It was probably more in the interests of the Countryside Alliance than of the Government that it did. Nevertheless, the Government have clarified our position, as I have indicated. The challenge is to the
256Lord Whitty
:My Lords, if the Government had pressed ahead to implement the legislation before the legal issue had been resolved, does the Minister think that that would have won praise from the Opposition?Lord Archer of Sandwell
:My Lords, in all contexts I fail to receive praise from the Opposition, despite my desperate attempts. On this, I cannot really expect it.Lord Whitty
:My Lords, is it too late for the Government to realise that, if hunting is abolished, foxes will suffer terribly, compared with their being got rid of—as they have to be—by being shot or by other means? If foxes are hunted, they are dead within four seconds of hounds closing in. That is a much better way of getting rid of foxes than shooting them, as a result of which they may be wounded and subsequently die of gangrene.Lord Renton
:My Lords, we have been over these arguments almost interminably. Parliament has made its position clear. I remind noble Lords, once again, that only 6 per cent of all foxes die as a result of hunting; therefore, other means, especially shooting, are the norm not the exception.Lord Whitty
:My Lords, earlier the Minister said that this issue was not about hunting but about the constitution. Is it not true that the issue is about liberty; that the great British public should surely have the chance at the next election to debate the issue of liberty in relation to this and other measures; and that that would be forwarded by allowing the normal timing of this legislation to proceed?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
:My Lords, it was this House that denied us that opportunity. When I was advocating the position taken in a free vote in the House of Commons for a later date, I said that one of its advantages would be to allow any residual opposition to be expressed through the ballot box. This House chose deliberately and, I am afraid, overwhelmingly, to reject that advice. Therefore, we are in the position whereby, unless the courts decide otherwise, we will implement the legislation on 18 February. This House has itself to blame for that position.Lord Whitty
:My Lords, having properly pursued a commitment to outlaw hunting with dogs and use the Parliament Act, on which I lay great stress, is it not more proper for the Government to defend the validity of the Parliament Act, which matters a great deal to all Members of the House and particularly to my noble friends, and to do so in the courts if necessary rather than abstaining from appearing before the judicial process on that question?Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
257:My Lords, I absolutely agree with my noble friend, but that is exactly what I said. We will
257Lord Whitty
323322321"would put at risk the delivery of public services"."to go further or faster than the savings set out in (my) Review during the period 2005-06 to 2007-08"—320319:My Lords, the answer to that question is, "has the noble Baroness, Lady Noakes, stopped beating her husband?". The assumption behind that question is that low taxes discourage poverty, whereas high taxes encourage poverty, which of course is clearly not the case.323322321"would put at risk the delivery of public services"."to go further or faster than the savings set out in (my) Review during the period 2005-06 to 2007-08"—320319The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord Mclntosh of Haringey)
:My Lords, I apologise to the House for failing to say what I had written but have lost. It was a first-class speech and I was very interested to hear it, although, like the noble Lord, Lord Newby, I agreed with little of it. I apologise for not saying so.Lord Mclntosh of Haringey
:My Lords, have all the 37 requests from the United States to which the Minister referred been brought under this new measure which came into effect on 1 January, or will some of them be handled under the earlier procedures?Lord Hurd of Westwell
To ask Her Majesty's Government whether they are satisfied with the working of the extradition treaty, signed in March 2003, between the United Kingdom and the United States.:My Lords, I beg leave to ask the Question standing in my name on the Order Paper. In doing so, I wish to make it clear that I am not referring to any particular case.To ask Her Majesty's Government whether they are satisfied with the working of the extradition treaty, signed in March 2003, between the United Kingdom and the United States.Lord Hurd of Westwell
:My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that reply, which makes it clear in her own words that the Government gave effect to parts of this treaty on New Year's Day even through the United States' Senate has not ratified the treaty and, according to my information, is not likely to do so in the near future.Lord Hurd of Westwell
:My Lords, if the noble Lord intends to enlighten the electorate, will he confirm that the shaking of the head from his Benches earlier means 55 plus 1 per cent for national insurance?Lord Sheppard of Didgemere
:My Lords, if the answer regarding the figure of 56 per cent is yes, did I misunderstand?Lord Sheppard of Didgemere
332"There should be no commitment to a large programme of nuclear fission power until it has been demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt that a method exists to ensure the safe containment of long-lived highly radioactive waste for the indefinite future".3316th Report: Nuclear Power and the Environment.:My Lords, needless to say, as a member of the committee of the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh—it was, as always, a great pleasure to serve under him, for somehow, whatever the subject, he always makes it seem fun—I unreservedly support all its conclusions and recommendations, not least those referring to the unconvincing methods, to put it at its least, of the Committee on Radioactive Waste Management, CoRWM.332"There should be no commitment to a large programme of nuclear fission power until it has been demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt that a method exists to ensure the safe containment of long-lived highly radioactive waste for the indefinite future".3316th Report: Nuclear Power and the Environment.Lord Flowers
:My Lords, my recollection is that the Nirex inquiry was held in public.Lord Flowers
297296"'underneath are the everlasting arms".:My Lords, the Motion for this debate refers to "the case for a low-tax economy". I wondered where to start. One thought was to say, '"Well, that is a good idea" and then sit down. Another option was to say, "Just a minute, there is another side of this coin; it is called public expenditure. There is a heck of a lot to that", and then sit down. But the third option is to try to make something of the debate.297296"'underneath are the everlasting arms".Lord Shutt of Greetland
:My Lords, the trouble with the Cerrie committee was that it never considered the hormesis theory because it spent all its time fighting against the two representatives of Greenpeace who Michael Meacher had appointed to the committee who made its life pretty well impossible.Lord Taverne
"a deeply immoral use of our scientific knowledge"."[Whereas] high doses of radiation suppress our damage-control biosystem with consequent increased metabolic mutations, and cancer mortality … low dose radiation stimulates increased biosystem activity that produces fewer persistent metabolic alterations and mutations with lower cancer mortality and increased longevity".330Journal of Radiation ResearchBritish Journal of Radiology329:My Lords, I am glad that the report we are debating has not pulled its punches—nor did the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh, in introducing it. It is the most scathing report from a committee of this House that I have read. As it clearly demonstrates, Defra has been pusillanimous. Determined to put off a difficult decision about the future of nuclear energy, it has decided to hide behind the Committee on Radioactive Waste Management and deliberately gave it terms of reference and a composition which ensures further delay."a deeply immoral use of our scientific knowledge"."[Whereas] high doses of radiation suppress our damage-control biosystem with consequent increased metabolic mutations, and cancer mortality … low dose radiation stimulates increased biosystem activity that produces fewer persistent metabolic alterations and mutations with lower cancer mortality and increased longevity".330Journal of Radiation ResearchBritish Journal of Radiology329Lord Taverne
3253245th Report, Session 2003-04, HL Paper 200Radioactive Waste Managementrose to call attention to the report from the Select Committee on Science and Technology,3253245th Report, Session 2003-04, HL Paper 200Radioactive Waste ManagementLord Oxburgh
352:My Lords, we have had a full and most valuable debate. I thank noble Lords for their diverse and interesting contributions to the discussion.
352Lord Oxburgh
:My Lords, is the Minister aware of the National Depression Screening Day, which has been running in the United States since 1991? Can he tell the House what screening for mental health takes place in this country?The Earl of Listowel
334Managing Radioactive Waste SafelyOfficial Report"now we are talking about spring, and spring it will be".333The long time-scales involved might be thought to be a reason for postponing decisions. The contrary is the case, since existing storage arrangements have a limited life and will require replacement, and eventually the repackaging and transfer of stored waste".:My Lords, as a co-opted member of the committee that produced the report, I support it fully and applaud its plain language. I wish to describe events of the past seven years to set the report in the context of the procrastination and indifference that have prevailed over that period.334Managing Radioactive Waste SafelyOfficial Report"now we are talking about spring, and spring it will be".333The long time-scales involved might be thought to be a reason for postponing decisions. The contrary is the case, since existing storage arrangements have a limited life and will require replacement, and eventually the repackaging and transfer of stored waste".Lord Tombs
Choosing Health:My Lords, the Minister will know that the Choosing HealthEarl Howe
"The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the forces of the Crown. It may be frail—its roof may shake—the wind may blow through it—the storm may enter—the rain may enter— but the King of England cannot enter—all his force dares not cross the threshold of the ruined tenement!".271:My Lords, as this is the first occasion upon which I have had the privilege of addressing your Lordships' House, I crave your indulgence and would like to thank all in this House who have been so kind and courteous to me."The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the forces of the Crown. It may be frail—its roof may shake—the wind may blow through it—the storm may enter—the rain may enter— but the King of England cannot enter—all his force dares not cross the threshold of the ruined tenement!".271Lord Howard of Rising
295inter alia294293raison d'être292:My Lords, I should like to approach the debate from a different angle. There are others far more qualified in this House to give chapter and verse to the statistics and data that lead inexorably to the conclusion that we have an overtaxed economy, as my noble friend Lord Blackwell so eloquently expressed when he put down his marker for this debate.295inter alia294293raison d'être292Lord Kalms
301Spectator"often as a result of marketed tax avoidance schemes".Pre-Budget Report"Britain cannot afford to continue with the destruction of its pension savings".300299"some of the smaller markets, in particular Switzerland and Ireland, have successfully positioned themselves as serious competitors to the UK for certain types of European headquarters operation".Financial TimesFor the economy's sake we cannot afford not to cut taxes298:My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend Lord Blackwell for introducing the debate. I congratulate him on his excellent speech. It is also gratifying to have an opportunity to talk about the economy and tax as a result of my noble friend's initiative, rather than as part of a fairly pointless and demeaning process deriving from the Maastricht Treaty.301Spectator"often as a result of marketed tax avoidance schemes".Pre-Budget Report"Britain cannot afford to continue with the destruction of its pension savings".300299"some of the smaller markets, in particular Switzerland and Ireland, have successfully positioned themselves as serious competitors to the UK for certain types of European headquarters operation".Financial TimesFor the economy's sake we cannot afford not to cut taxes298Viscount Trenchard
289288287:My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lord Blackwell for initiating what I believe to be a very important debate. But, looking at the red leather opposite, I might be forgiven for assuming that the issue of low taxation is not considered as important by other sides of the House as it is by our Benches.289288287Lord Laidlaw
339:My Lords, as a member of the committee, I, too, appreciated the excellent chairmanship of the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh, in producing this very important report.339Lord Lewis of Newnham
:My Lords, before the Minister sits down, could he answer my question on the liquid waste? He emphasised the point that CoR WM is concerned with the disposal of solid waste, whereas the high activity waste will probably be in a liquid form for the best part of 20 years because of heat generation.Lord Lewis of Newnham
278277276"It was the job of government to establish a framework of stability … within which individual families and businesses were free to pursue their own dreams and ambitions. We had to get out of the business of telling people what their ambitions should be and how exactly to realise them".275:My Lords, like other noble Lords, I congratulate my noble friend Lord Blackwell on the subject that he has chosen for today's debate and on its timeliness. I agree entirely with his philosophy and arguments and will therefore attempt, without I hope too much repetition, only to embellish them with some practical illustrations from my own political experience.278277276"It was the job of government to establish a framework of stability … within which individual families and businesses were free to pursue their own dreams and ambitions. We had to get out of the business of telling people what their ambitions should be and how exactly to realise them".275Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market
:My Lords, I do not believe I said that precisely. However, I shall write to the noble Lord to clarify the point.Lord Whitty
348:My Lords, I said that CoRWM can make recommendations in relation to the identification of sites and the kind of location that would be required. It is conceivable that it could say that only one location met the criteria. We are assuming that we are talking about deep geological disposal as a generic approach to site choice. Assuming that there is an option for a site, once CoRWM has established the criteria and that there are options, the Government will have to accept those criteria and there will be a process for examining them site by site. We do not want a re-run of the Nirex identification of sites and the maximisation of opposition to every site that was even indirectly hinted at.348Lord Whitty
:My Lords, some of these points are being pursued elsewhere. Certainly the overall approach to nuclear power as a possible component of future energy policy will take into account all those wider issues.Lord Whitty
350349:My Lords, for that part of the inquiry process—yes. But my point is that at that inquiry we were unable to provide an audit trail backwards to say that we had looked at all other options. The point of this process is that we can clearly demonstrate, not only that there are good reasons for proposing a particular facility and a particular site, but, to reach that conclusion, that we have looked at all options. That will be necessary if we are to carry public opinion with us on the identification of any site. That is precisely what the CoRWM process is about. We will not take the position of deciding on the option, announcing and defending it, and, as in the case of Nirex, eventually having to abandon it. Whatever people's views of nuclear power are, whatever they believe the optimum option is, that would not be an attractive proposition for anyone.350349Lord Whitty
:My Lords, I accept that it is a low-carbon technology, which in certain contexts is renewable, but until we solve the waste problem, it is not necessarily a sustainable fuel. Therefore, it does not meet all the criteria of the renewable element. Of course, the energy White Paper does not rely on the whole of carbon-based technology being replaced by renewables. That is a distortion that some of the advocates of nuclear power and the opponents of wind farms, including the noble Lord, occasionally imply, saying that we are replacing coal, oil and gas by renewables in our energy policy. That is not the intention. It remains to be seen whether nuclear power is required within the UK context in the period to 2050. We are certainly doing all that we can to keep that nuclear option open, but at the moment, we are not convinced that there is a need to commit to future nuclear build.Lord Whitty
347346:My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that guidance. I also thank the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh, and everyone involved in this committee for the report and for the work that they put into observing the work of CoRWM. The fact that I hardly agree with a word of the report, nor with much that has been said tonight, should not detract from the fact that I am glad that they have taken a deep interest in this issue.347346Lord Whitty
351:My Lords, before the Minister sits down, I have worked on both aspects, nuclear and non-nuclear. Does he agree that CoRWM should be able to take a very broad view of all aspects of nuclear waste? It seems to be considered more in the United States, in the International Atomic Energy Agency and in Russia. Dealing with nuclear waste is a
351Lord Hunt of Chesterton
:My Lords, I congratulate the Science and Technology Committee under the able chairmanship of the noble Lord. Lord Oxburgh. on its trenchant report. The evidence in its report of interviews with CoRWM and with the Minister do indeed suggest that there is not likely to be much progress soon in dealing with radioactive wastes in the UK in a practical fashion.Lord Hunt of Chesterton
:My Lords, does the Minister not recognise that her answers raise serious concerns? Her Government have decided that British nationals can be extradited to America more quickly without any reciprocity in the near future. That affects their rights. In particular, it is almost impossible for a foreign national to obtain bail before an American court. In the light of these quite draconian measures, introduced at the behest of the American Government, will she make a statement that they will be used only in cases relating to terrorism?Lord Baker of Dorking
305WAOfficial Report"Estimates of the number of higher rate tax payers for 2005–06 depend on the level of the basic rate limit. This will be announced in the usual manner in Budget 2005".—[WAOfficial Report"Whether the proposals contained in the Chancellor's pre-Budget report will result in more people paying tax at the top rate; and, if so, how many"."In this world nothing is certain but death and taxes".304"What are the inevitable consequences of being too fond of glory? Taxes upon every article which enters into a mouth or covers the back or is placed under the foot. Taxes on everything on earth and the waters under the earth".303"Whatever is a man's own is absolutely his own; no man hath a right to take it from him without his consent either expressed by himself or representative".302:My Lords, I must confess a little disappointment that immediately the debate started the Government Benches practically emptied of Members. It may be, perhaps, that they did not want to listen to the good advice coming from these Benches. So many left, it was rather like the exodus of the children of Israel from Egypt.305WAOfficial Report"Estimates of the number of higher rate tax payers for 2005–06 depend on the level of the basic rate limit. This will be announced in the usual manner in Budget 2005".—[WAOfficial Report"Whether the proposals contained in the Chancellor's pre-Budget report will result in more people paying tax at the top rate; and, if so, how many"."In this world nothing is certain but death and taxes".304"What are the inevitable consequences of being too fond of glory? Taxes upon every article which enters into a mouth or covers the back or is placed under the foot. Taxes on everything on earth and the waters under the earth".303"Whatever is a man's own is absolutely his own; no man hath a right to take it from him without his consent either expressed by himself or representative".302Lord Steinberg
310309Official Report308:My Lords, the House owes a debt of gratitude to my noble friend Lord Blackwell. With the election on the horizon, well within sight, and tax an important issue, as is always the case in any election in this country, this debate gives the House an opportunity to discuss it. The opportunity has been seized eagerly by the massed ranks of those on the Benches opposite. We must remind ourselves that the old idea that this House is mainly Tory is not true. The latest figure is that there are 202 Tory Peers and 201 Labour Peers. So we are pretty equal, as everybody can see.310309Official Report308Lord Marlesford
"Underground storage or disposal represents the best long-term solution".335:My Lords, I was not a member of the committee, but I have read its excellent report. It is a good example of the value added by your Lordships' House to parliamentary government in this country. I shall briefly add my voice to the attempts to shame the Government into taking proper account of the report."Underground storage or disposal represents the best long-term solution".335Lord Marlesford
:My Lords, does the Minister accept that nuclear power is a renewable fuel?Lord Marlesford
"Some people fall in love with their chauffeur. I fell in love with Soviet Communism"."the benevolence of a ruler who treats his subjects as dependent children … is the greatest conceivable despotism and destroys all freedom"."to be civilised is to be grown-up".An Answer to the Question: "What is Enlightenment?"286"diminishes the moral stature of human beings"."with that sort of power, the Government can do whatever it likes".285SunTimesGuardianSociety284"The greatest restriction on the liberty of the citizen is a complete absence of money".:My Lords, I begin by declaring an interest as a director of the Centre for Policy Studies. In that capacity, I congratulate our chairman, my noble friend Lord Blackwell, on calling this timely debate, assembling such a distinguished list of speakers, and his crystal-clear introduction. Having not spoken in the House for a little while, I am looking forward to hearing my successor on our Front Bench—my noble friend Lady Noakes, who is brilliant—wind up the debate and get the better of the noble Lord, Lord Mclntosh, which is something that I could never quite manage when I did her job."Some people fall in love with their chauffeur. I fell in love with Soviet Communism"."the benevolence of a ruler who treats his subjects as dependent children … is the greatest conceivable despotism and destroys all freedom"."to be civilised is to be grown-up".An Answer to the Question: "What is Enlightenment?"286"diminishes the moral stature of human beings"."with that sort of power, the Government can do whatever it likes".285SunTimesGuardianSociety284"The greatest restriction on the liberty of the citizen is a complete absence of money".Lord Saatchi
:My Lords, does the Minister agree that screening is currently by disease and is piecemeal? Are there any plans to consider co-ordinating screening for good health?Lord Chan
291"It is the highest impertinence and presumption …in kings and ministers to pretend to watch over the economy of private people…They are themselves always, and without exception, the greatest spendthrifts in the society"."Do you mean a state governed by people all wise, all far-seeing, totally impartial and balanced in their judgments, or do you mean a state run by people like you and me?"."That which no one owns, no one will care for",290"I'm sure everyone feels sorry for the individual who has fallen by the wayside or who can't keep up in our competitive society, but my own compassion goes beyond that to the millions of
290"the state is an institution by which everybody tries to live at the expense of everybody else".:My Lords, we are all indebted to the noble Lord, Lord Blackwell, for introducing this timely debate. As an original founder director of the CPS, it is wonderful to see the flag still flying so strongly. Taxation lies at the heart of politics. On the day following the Chancellor's Autumn Statement, the headlines in the newspapers and the general tenor of the BBC's announcements were, "Chancellor promises a give-away budget". Nowhere did I hear the balancing argument, "Whose money is it anyway?".291"It is the highest impertinence and presumption …in kings and ministers to pretend to watch over the economy of private people…They are themselves always, and without exception, the greatest spendthrifts in the society"."Do you mean a state governed by people all wise, all far-seeing, totally impartial and balanced in their judgments, or do you mean a state run by people like you and me?"."That which no one owns, no one will care for",290"I'm sure everyone feels sorry for the individual who has fallen by the wayside or who can't keep up in our competitive society, but my own compassion goes beyond that to the millions of
290"the state is an institution by which everybody tries to live at the expense of everybody else".Lord Vinson
3422:My Lords, is the noble Baroness aware that there are some 400 atomic power stations around the globe and some 30 either under construction or being built? The development of nuclear energy as probably one of the only ways in which to prevent CO3422Lord Vinson
:My Lords, not at all. I was also about to thank the Minister for his reply. I shall not pick up all the points that he made. Although I am sure that he will seek to interpret it in other ways, I repeat that it is not necessary to argue for reducing public expenditure to reduce taxes, it is simply necessary to argue for public expenditure that grows a little less fast than the economy. That is an important technical and real point.Lord Blackwell
:My Lords, I shall not detain the House for long, but I thank all noble Lords who have spoken and to pay tribute to the outstanding maiden speech of the noble Lord, Lord Howard of Rising.Lord Blackwell
263"The jaws of power are always open to devour, and her arm is always stretched out, if possible, to destroy the freedom of thinking, speaking and writing".262"It is better to cherish virtue and humanity by leaving much to free will, even with some loss of object, than to attempt to make men mere machines and instruments of a political benevolence. The world on the whole will gain from liberty, without which virtue cannot exist"."Only a welfare state that benefits most of the population will generate a common morality of citizenship".261260259rose to call attention to the case for a low-tax economy; and to move for Papers.263"The jaws of power are always open to devour, and her arm is always stretched out, if possible, to destroy the freedom of thinking, speaking and writing".262"It is better to cherish virtue and humanity by leaving much to free will, even with some loss of object, than to attempt to make men mere machines and instruments of a political benevolence. The world on the whole will gain from liberty, without which virtue cannot exist"."Only a welfare state that benefits most of the population will generate a common morality of citizenship".261260259Lord Blackwell
267Wall Street Journals266Guardian265264:My Lords, I congratulate my noble friend Lord Blackwell and I am pleased to support his Motion drawing attention to the benefits of low-tax economies.267Wall Street Journals266Guardian265264Lord Lamont of Lerwick
:My Lords, the National Service Framework for Coronary Heart Disease has not adopted a population screening approach for heart disease. However, Standards 3 and 4 of the National Service Framework require GPs to identify all people of all ages with, and at high risk of, coronary heart disease and to place them on a practice register, which enables systematic treatment regimes to be put in place.Lord Warner
Choosing Health:My Lords, screening is specific to particular conditions because one of the rules of screening is that it must do more good than harm physically and psychologically. There must be specific tests for particular conditions for which people are screened. But we know that a number of lifestyle issues can cause great concern with regard to people's health, and the NHS will be introducing health trainers as part of the programme of change in this area under the Choosing HealthLord Warner
:My Lords, the Government concentrate their actions very much on running the NHS. But I think that this matter may be looked at by the UK National Screening Committee, if it considers it appropriate.Lord Warner
:My Lords, as yet there is no evidence of the effectiveness of screening for prostate cancer. The Department of Health has established a prostate cancer risk management programme to ensure that men considering a prostate-specific antigen test are given information concerning the benefits, limitations and risks associated with such a test.Lord Warner
249:My Lords, I am sure the whole House is pleased that the noble Baroness has benefited from this service. I am happy to join her in giving a commercial for
249Lord Warner
Choosing Health:My Lords, each year the NHS offers a specific screening test to about 10 million people. The Choosing HealthThe Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
:My Lords, my noble friend is right. We know that people in deprived inner-city areas and from black and ethnic minority populations are less likely to attend screening programmes. The concept of any screening by class is, of course, unacceptable. The UK National Screening Committee is reviewing each nationally managed programme to ensure that it is effective in reaching all groups and is culturally acceptable.Lord Warner
:My Lords, I know that there are problems in this area, and I sympathise with the noble Baroness on the issue. I shall certainly look into what is being done in this respect and write to her.Lord Warner
:My Lords, the noble Earl is right: we are looking to expand the role of community pharmacies. That has been part of the lengthy negotiations which have taken place with the profession in this area and which have now come to a conclusion. We are considering how to use screening as one of the new duties that pharmacies undertake. I shall write to the noble Earl with better particulars on this matter.Lord Warner
:My Lords, as far as I am aware, there is no national screening programme for mental health. It is certainly not mentioned in my brief. I do not believe that there are any plans at the moment to emulate the United States in that area.Lord Warner
"if they chose identify a particular site""It is CoRWM who are correct on this one"."Part of the CoRWM process is to look at siting issues. That will be part of the report"."We are dismayed by this vagueness which seems a recipe for yet further delay"."After we report, assuming that we have done our job well, the Government are likely to take some time, I suspect, to do some further consultation. They will then move, I would guess, towards a siting process for whatever kind of facility may then be recommended".may want to make recommendations to Ministers on them".328"In our terms of reference, public acceptance does not appear. There is a rather perhaps carefully worded phrase which says it is our job to try and inspire public confidence. Public acceptance will be in terms of a longer-term Government process"."Are you hoping then to be able to answer the question—will your proposed technical solution have public acceptance?"."it felt as though CoRWM was engaged in a philosophical exercise in theoretical decision making".327:My Lords, I felt very privileged to have been co-opted on to the committee. When I suggested that perhaps I might be able to offer a contribution, it was recollected that I had sat on the inquiry which reported in March 1999 on the issue of nuclear waste. That is nearly six years ago, and I totally endorse what the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh, said about the delay."if they chose identify a particular site""It is CoRWM who are correct on this one"."Part of the CoRWM process is to look at siting issues. That will be part of the report"."We are dismayed by this vagueness which seems a recipe for yet further delay"."After we report, assuming that we have done our job well, the Government are likely to take some time, I suspect, to do some further consultation. They will then move, I would guess, towards a siting process for whatever kind of facility may then be recommended".may want to make recommendations to Ministers on them".328"In our terms of reference, public acceptance does not appear. There is a rather perhaps carefully worded phrase which says it is our job to try and inspire public confidence. Public acceptance will be in terms of a longer-term Government process"."Are you hoping then to be able to answer the question—will your proposed technical solution have public acceptance?"."it felt as though CoRWM was engaged in a philosophical exercise in theoretical decision making".327Lord Jenkin of Roding
:My Lords, after Mr Morley said that CoRWM's interpretation was correct, he said that it could, if it chose, identify a site. Was he correct in saying that, because that is not what the Minister is saying now?Lord Jenkin of Roding
270269268Being Human:My Lords, I recognise that this is a debate of high political confrontation, and for that reason I venture into it with some hesitation. But, as the noble Lord, Lord Blackwell, said, the issues are of considerable importance not just in the realm of economics and policies, but also in the realm of fundamental values. I take comfort from the fact that, although the Apostle exhorts bishops not to be lovers of money, he did not say that they could not be interested in it. As a member of the assets committee of the Church Commissioners, and as somebody who has written on the subject, I therefore felt it important to take up the noble Lord's challenge, specifically in the area of values, to which he frequently referred.270269268Being HumanThe Lord Bishop of Worcester
:My Lords, can my noble friend confirm that there will be no change in the existing practice whereby extradition requests from the United States are automatically refused if the person concerned is likely to face a possible death sentence?Lord Faulkner of Worcester
314:My Lords, it is incumbent on any political party that will face a general election campaign in effect 10 weeks from now to tell us the
314Lord Newby
313312311:My Lords, I also congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Blackwell, on initiating such a timely debate. Taxation and how tax revenue will be spent will, as always, be central to the forthcoming general election campaign. I also congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Howard of Rising, on his maiden speech. I am just sorry that I could not agree with much of it.313312311Lord Newby
:My Lords, I am very interested that the noble Baroness declines to do so.Lord Newby
:Yes, my Lords.Lord Newby
:My Lords, I am very happy to do that. If I am not interrupted, I shall have time to tell the House what our policy is. I shall move to it straight away. I have two minutes and therefore I shall speak very quickly.Lord Newby
"no more than 30 per cent",274"The countries that allowed their public spending to grow significantly more than other countries do not show better quantitative results for"—Politeia273272"a democratic state … which spends no more than 30 per cent of GDP is one that could enable a great deal of good and do comparatively little harm".:My Lords, on behalf of the whole House, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Howard of Rising, on his eloquent and thoughtful maiden speech. He certainly managed to combine a large number of arresting statements within the convention that maiden speeches should be non-controversial. We look forward to his future contributions to our debates based on his wide experience of business life, local government and rural and heritage affairs."no more than 30 per cent",274"The countries that allowed their public spending to grow significantly more than other countries do not show better quantitative results for"—Politeia273272"a democratic state … which spends no more than 30 per cent of GDP is one that could enable a great deal of good and do comparatively little harm".Lord Skidelsky
:My Lords, have the Government made any investigation of the prospects of ratification, or are they simply accepting anodyne assurances from the American Government that this will happen at some time in the future? Why will not the Government abandon their supine position and revoke the designation of the USA under Section 71 of the Extradition Act, at least until the Senate does ratify the treaty?Lord Goodhart
282281280"Labour has put up taxes 66 times. Pensioners, landowners, businesses and families on all income levels are paying more".279:My Lords, I welcome this debate on a low-tax economy which has been secured by the noble Lord, Lord Blackwell. Perhaps as a new boy myself in this Chamber I can take the opportunity to congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Howard, on an impressive and interesting maiden speech. I have no doubt that the subject matter will feature from time to time in the upcoming months as we head towards a general election. It is no coincidence that the title picks up a theme from a series of consultation papers issued from Conservative Central Office in recent weeks.282281280"Labour has put up taxes 66 times. Pensioners, landowners, businesses and families on all income levels are paying more".279Lord McKenzie of Luton
:My Lords, can the Minister say what measures he will take to ensure that all Peers are fully aware of the excellent screening programme available to them? I speak from personal experience in that, having taken full advantage of the health check and screening programme, I was diagnosed as having very high blood pressure. Had I not taken the test, who knows what could have happened to me? Therefore, will the Minister undertake to give as much publicity as possible to the programme so that all Peers can take advantage of the service offered?Baroness Gale
Baroness Ashton of UphollandClauses 64 and 65.—(Baroness Ashton of UphollandSchedules 6 and 7Clause 63Schedules 4 and 5Clauses 60 to 62Schedule 3Clauses 19 to 59Schedule 2258Clauses 10 to 18Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 9
Baroness Ashton of UphollandClauses 64 and 65.—(Baroness Ashton of UphollandSchedules 6 and 7Clause 63Schedules 4 and 5Clauses 60 to 62Schedule 3Clauses 19 to 59Schedule 2258Clauses 10 to 18Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 9:My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Ashton of UphollandClauses 64 and 65.—(Baroness Ashton of UphollandSchedules 6 and 7Clause 63Schedules 4 and 5Clauses 60 to 62Schedule 3Clauses 19 to 59Schedule 2258Clauses 10 to 18Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 9
Baroness Ashton of UphollandClauses 64 and 65.—(Baroness Ashton of UphollandSchedules 6 and 7Clause 63Schedules 4 and 5Clauses 60 to 62Schedule 3Clauses 19 to 59Schedule 2258Clauses 10 to 18Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 9The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
:My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Can he be more specific about the inequalities? I wonder whether there are inequalities in screening and whether certain social classes receive more screening than others; for example, do black minority ethnic groups receive less screening? If so, how can we counter that imbalance?Baroness Massey of Darwen
What steps they are taking to encourage men and women to undergo health screening.asked Her Majesty's Government:
What steps they are taking to encourage men and women to undergo health screening.Baroness Massey of Darwen
:My Lords, that is not the purpose of this debate. It is not for me to stand at this Dispatch Box, as my noble namesake knows. But we will move on.Baroness Miller of Hendon
345"had an interest in the nuclear industry for over 20 years".344"at the volume of impenetrable paperwork that was on offer to members of the public"."the UK's premier dedicated nuclear services company … dedicated to delivering cost-effective engineering solutions and safety consultancy services"."There is a danger that without technical expertise CoRWM will be unable to evaluate evidence critically".343:My Lords, I should like to thank the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh, for introducing the debate and doing so so very well. I should also like to congratulate him and his committee on having produced such a clear and concise report. I enjoyed reading it over the weekend and, as a lay person, I found it eminently readable, which I cannot say of most reports that I have to read. I have rarely read one that is so trenchant and uncompromisingly blunt.345"had an interest in the nuclear industry for over 20 years".344"at the volume of impenetrable paperwork that was on offer to members of the public"."the UK's premier dedicated nuclear services company … dedicated to delivering cost-effective engineering solutions and safety consultancy services"."There is a danger that without technical expertise CoRWM will be unable to evaluate evidence critically".343Baroness Miller of Hendon
:My Lords, will the Minister tell the House whether the Department of Health has plans to issue guidance which will enable the general public to evaluate the efficacy of screening provided by private companies in the private sector?Baroness Barker
:My Lords, with regard to the somewhat younger age group, can the Minister tell us whether enough is being done to encourage those in their 40s to have heart check-ups? A considerable number in that age group seem to die well before their time.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
307306:My Lords, I add my thanks to my noble friend Lord Blackwell for initiating this important and fascinating debate. This is a strange debate for me to make a contribution. I have no expertise in the subject, and the only experience I can claim is many years of poring over the financial pages in the daily newspapers, where one can find conflicting ideas about the apparent health of our economy. I believe that one finds what one wants to believe and then sticks with it. That way it is much simpler. Sometimes you are right and sometimes you are wrong. The position is probably similar for the heavyweight journalists who put their minds to these problems.307306Baroness Seccombe
338will not be interested in the issue of radioactive waste until it affects them directly"—"We are sceptical that the public will in reality be interested or engaged by the current process, which will be perceived to be largely theoretical".337"We agree with the Royal Society that 'the processes of public consultation are more or less well known and could be readily designed by experienced social scientists working with relevant technical and policy experts".336:My Lords, I was a member of the Select Committee and I should like to thank our chairman, the noble Lord, Lord Oxburgh, for his leadership, and all our staff for their work in helping us to reach our conclusions. I want to concentrate my remarks on the question of public confidence in the decision of CoRWM on the management of radioactive waste and the matter of its public consultation.338will not be interested in the issue of radioactive waste until it affects them directly"—"We are sceptical that the public will in reality be interested or engaged by the current process, which will be perceived to be largely theoretical".337"We agree with the Royal Society that 'the processes of public consultation are more or less well known and could be readily designed by experienced social scientists working with relevant technical and policy experts".336Baroness Walmsley
:My Lords, I remind noble Lords that the noble Baroness is limited to 10 minutes, and that that is the second intervention.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
:My Lords, I have checked. I understand that "faffing" is a word that is used on the BBC and is not objectionable in your Lordships' House. However, there are other words used on the BBC that would be.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
:My Lords, in the light of the post-September 11 anti-terrorism laws in place both here and in the United States, how many extraditions have been made in relation to accusations of terrorism; and how many arrests using the European arrest warrant of the extradition treaty have been used in this country for actions that are not crimes in this country?Baroness Rawlings
:My Lords, I do not have specific details in relation to the arrests not for crimes. I do not know of any in fact, but before I confirm that I shall obtain details and write to the noble Baroness. I can tell the noble Baroness that to date the United Kingdom has received 37 extradition requests from the US that are being considered under the Extradition Act 2003. There have been four surrenders to the US under the new Act and one request has been withdrawn by the United States. The United Kingdom has made two requests to the United States since the introduction of the new legislation. On the other details, I shall happily write to the noble Baroness.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
:My Lords, I cannot accept what the noble Lord has just said. The new arrangements regarding the evidential requirement are not precisely reciprocal, but they are comparable. The Americans have demanded for some time that we provide probable cause. That was the position under the old Act when we demanded of them a prima facie case. Their probable cause is very similar to the information base that we now demand. For the many who say that it was unfair to the Americans in the past, it is more proportionate now. The provisions in our Act are robust. We went through them in detail in this House. There are appropriate safeguards to make sure that extradition takes place only when it is merited and in accordance with our law.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
254:My Lords, I can confirm to my noble friend that there has been no
254Baroness Scotland of Asthal
:My Lords, in answer to a number of previous questions, I have made it absolutely clear that the 2003 Act is not retrospective. It will operate in relation to all the applications received after the Act came into operation. There is no element of retrospection.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
:My Lords, I beg to introduce a Bill to make further provision relating to the management of offenders, the functions of local probation boards and prisons; to provide for the appointment and functions of Her Majesty's Commissioner for Offender Management and Prisons; to make provision about fines and other matters relating to sentencing; to make provision for the electronic monitoring of persons on bail; and for connected purposes. I beg to move that this Bill be now read a first time.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
253:My Lords, the Government do not accept the assertion made by the noble Lord that we have been supine. The noble Lord knows perfectly well that the United States Senate can decide when it will consent to the treaty. We have been assured that this matter is being dealt with expeditiously. There is no reason for us to believe that it will not appropriately go through the process. We are all aware that in the interim there has been an election in the United States and that its Senate will not
253Baroness Scotland of Asthal
:My Lords, I do not agree that the arrangement is unfair. The noble Lord will know that prior to the introduction of the 2003 Act we were not obliged to produce prima facie evidence in support of our applications to the United States, whereas we demanded prima facie from it. The new position is, we believe, an appropriate one. We had a long and detailed debate during the passage of the Bill in 2003, and the Government fully explained why we believe that this is a proportionate and proper response to one of our oldest and most trusted partners.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
:My Lords, Her Majesty's Government are satisfied with the current extradition arrangements with the United States. Some provisions of the new treaty were given effect in the United Kingdom on 1 January 2004 via the Extradition Act 2003 (Designation of Part 2 Territories) Order 2003. This has already improved our extradition arrangements with the United States. The full benefits will be realised when the United States gives the treaty effect in its own law.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
248:My Lords, following the supplementary question of the noble Baroness, Lady Massey, can the Minister tell me about the
248Baroness Gardner of Parkes
318317316weve no plans to increase tax at all,:My Lords, today my noble friend Lord Blackwell made a powerful case for a low-tax economy. I have to confess that before Christmas I had unseasonal thoughts towards my noble friend as he in effect set my Christmas Recess homework. However, given the range and quality of speeches made today, I withdraw all those thoughts. The debate has been a very great success and I pay tribute to him.318317316weve no plans to increase tax at all,Baroness Noakes
:My Lords, perhaps the noble Lord is practising for the time when we are again in government, but I remind him that it is not normal for the Official Opposition to respond to such debates.Baroness Noakes
:No, my Lords.Baroness Noakes
:My Lords, is the Minister aware that disabled people who go for screening often have huge problems because a moving and handling regulation stops staff lifting them on to X-ray tables, plinths or whatever? Does he agree that more suitable equipment, such as hoists and slings, should be available so that those people can have the necessary screening?Baroness Masham of Ilton
"could be taken as a satire on bureaucratic processes in general".341:My Lords, I wish that I could agree with everything that has been said, because it would make my life much easier. But I hope that disagreeing with some of what has been said will at least make this debate a little livelier. However, I do so with some trepidation, because the experience assembled on the committee which has written this report is considerable. Reading the report, and listening to the noble Lord, Lord Flowers, who was, as he said, grappling with this problem in 1976, it struck me that we have been looking for a solution for an extremely long time."could be taken as a satire on bureaucratic processes in general".341Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
:My Lords, there is an interesting debate to be had about that committee, but perhaps at another time. I thank my noble friend for leading me neatly to another matter that I was disappointed the report did not address. The report drew its evidence about this committee's work so narrowly. I accept that the inquiry was supposed be a short one, but the other stakeholders—Nirex, BNFL and Greenpeace, which were key players—were not asked how they felt about the work that CoRWM was doing, how they felt about working with CoRWM and what level of confidence they had in the committee. Therefore, we have not understood how the rest of the organisations which will be working with CoRWM feel about the future, the time-scale or any of the other issues that your Lordships have raised.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
:My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for reminding noble Lords that that intervention has taken up another minute of my reply. Of course I am aware of the construction around the world, but, equally, I am aware of the problems that those countries constructing nuclear power stations have in disposing of their waste, which is why many of them are choosing to send it to Britain.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
:My Lords, while I have no brief to defend the Government at all, I would be interested if the noble Baroness would tell me clearly what is the Conservative policy on the future of nuclear power.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
Baroness Amos:My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness AmosThe Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
Oh!Noble Lords
363: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I am now able to announce the result of the by-election to elect a Liberal Democrat hereditary Peer in accordance with Standing Order 10.363The Clerk of the Parliaments
357: My Lords, there is no need for 30 different committees. The Government set out a strategy and target for the disposal of assets. I am
357Lord McIntosh of Haringey
Government Accounting: My Lords, the short answer is that the guidelines of 1999, to which I have referred, which are in Government AccountingLord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am glad that the noble Baroness, Lady O'Cathain, has caught up. We published the first National Asset Register in 1997. A revised and improved version was published in 2001 and the new one is expected shortly. The National Asset Register is exactly what the noble Baroness asks for.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, on the use of assets held by government, government departments are not set total targets and they are not told which assets to dispose of. The important point, which my noble friend Lord Barnett will remember from our debates a couple of year ago, is that under this Government operational assets are treated as a capital charge on the departments concerned. Therefore, the depreciation on those assets is counted against those departments' accounts. So there is pressure on departments to dispose of assets which are surplus to the department's requirement. I suggest to the House that that is a very desirable thing.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, that is exactly what the National Asset Register does. If the noble Lord, Lord Marlesford, has any evidence of uncatalogued assets I should be glad to hear it because it is a matter that would concern us. Of course it is important that we should know what our assets are and that those assets should perform financially when necessary. It is also important that they should be disposed of if they are not performing financially. But I emphasise that heritage assets are not counted in that sense; they are not a charge against departments; and departments are not encouraged or forced to dispose of them for financial reasons.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, it was not a failing of the Treasury that had ever occurred to me. I thought that it had always had candle-ends departments.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: No, my Lords, I am painting an accurate picture of the situation. There is pressure for the disposal of non-performing assets other than heritage assets. Heritage assets are protected by the fact that they are not a capital charge on the departments that own them. The guidance that the Department for Culture, Media and Sport gives on the proposed disposal of heritage assets is that it should be in accordance with government policies for the protection of those assets. That seems to be a 100 per cent answer to the concerns of the noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
Government Accounting: My Lords, it is the responsibility of individual departments to determine whether to retain or dispose of assets. Departments are aware that they need to take into account all aspects, not just financial, when deciding to dispose of an asset. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport has published specific guidance on the disposal of surplus heritage assets, such as historic buildings. This is referred to in Chapter 24 of Government AccountingThe Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
Times404: My Lords, I also should like to thank the noble and gallant Lord, Lord Craig, for initiating this debate, on an issue which, judging by the press it is constantly receiving, can indeed be considered topical. It has been a most interesting and exceedingly well informed discussion covering a range of points which are most pertinent to the subject. I will not try to reiterate too many of those already made today, especially considering the transcendent expertise of the noble Lords who have just spoken.Times404Lord Luke
What measures they are taking to respond to the recent call from the United Nations Secretary-General for member states to give greater support to the African Union Mission in Darfur and to address the situation there.asked Her Majesty's Government:
What measures they are taking to respond to the recent call from the United Nations Secretary-General for member states to give greater support to the African Union Mission in Darfur and to address the situation there.Lord Alton of Liverpool
"the vital African Union Mission deserves greater support".: My Lords, does the noble Baroness the Leader of the House agree that, with international focus inevitably now on events in and around the Indian Ocean, and on the signing of the north-south peace accord, we must remain focused on the continuing atrocities in Darfur? Will she confirm the UN estimates that some 70,000 fatalities have occurred there, 1.7 million people are displaced, 2.2 million are now dependent on aid and therefore at great risk should starvation begin to occur, and some 400 villages have been razed to the ground? Did the noble Baroness see the comments of Kofi Annan just four days ago that the situation in Darfur remains horrific? He said:
"the vital African Union Mission deserves greater support".Lord Alton of Liverpool
400399398rose to ask Her Majesty's Government what progress has been made on the Typhoon (Eurofighter) programme and the aircraft's introduction into service with the Royal Air Force.400399398Lord Craig of Radley
396395394393: The amendments concern a very important set of issues and this has been a clear and focused debate. We very much accept that the quality and credibility of the complaints process and the ability to resolve disputes, which is ideally what the complaints process should be about, is integral to the development of the new system.396395394393Lord Filkin
: I am very happy to give the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, an undertaking that I shall reply to him on all three points and on anything else which is germane.Lord Filkin
"A new, lighter touch inspection regime is something that we believe will be of great benefit to schools: we have shared this view with senior Ofsted officials. We welcome the emphasis on self-assessment".411: This is an important probing amendment by the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, because if we can obtain the same or better benefits with less bureaucracy, pain and even stress, then clearly we have advanced, and that is clearly one of the aims of the Bill. We are clear that an excessive burden should not be placed on the schools. That is one of the purposes of the revised inspection system and one which is sure to be more focused with far fewer inspectors, albeit at short notice. I do not agree with the noble Lord. I believe that stress compressed over a
"A new, lighter touch inspection regime is something that we believe will be of great benefit to schools: we have shared this view with senior Ofsted officials. We welcome the emphasis on self-assessment".411Lord Filkin
415: In response to the first of the questions put to me by the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, the intent and effect of Clause 7 is not new, although I will have to check the wording. It reflects the same powers as were previously in place.415Lord Filkin
416: I do not have a great deal to add to what I said in regard to the previous amendments of the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp. However, I shall see what I can do in that respect.416Lord Filkin
: The noble Baroness, Lady Morris, is right in that respect but, in practice, that is what the Bill as crafted does. It does so in a careful way. It requires not that absolutely everything has to be both electronically published and printed at the same time but that the inspector has to use his judgment as to how it is published according to the circumstances. Therefore one could imagine a situation where a parent who, for some reason, had not been sent a copy of a report, or wanted a copy of a report but did not have access to the web, would write to the chief inspector saying "I would like a copy of this report about the school", or whatever. In a situation like that, it is hard to envisage that the inspector would write back saying "No, you cannot have it. Go to the website". You would expect, as a good public servant, that he would send a copy. He has got the power to do it either way without essentially forcing him to have a large warehouse where everything is stocked just in case someone asks for it.Lord Filkin
419: I shall say more than a little in response, which may help during the later stages of the Bill.419Lord Filkin
422: I am extremely in favour of Members of the Committee asking people other than me difficult questions. The clause applies to England only.422Lord Filkin
426425: This is an interesting opportunity to go back to issues that we touched on briefly at Second Reading because they are part of the central architecture of the Bill. Therefore, this amendment gives an opportunity to engage with those issues.426425Lord Filkin
428: The Bill provides two categorise of schools that cause concern, as defined in Clause 43— special measures or significant improvement. Amendments Nos. 54, 87, 88 and 93, would add an additional category of school causing concern—a school likely to fail.428Lord Filkin
432431dirigisme: Not for the first time, the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Portsmouth has put his finger on the kind of dilemma that governments face and that we are facing in this debate. One is trying to simplify and yet, within government, there is always a tension between that and seeking to move to less regulation, less specification and less 432431dirigismeLord Filkin
435434: Sometimes the problem is that until the Government have expressed, as a result of probing amendments, the intended system in more detail, it is difficult to spot what on earth is going on. On reflection, it is sometimes an inefficient process, but now is not the time to speculate on that.435434Lord Filkin
: Without labouring the point, as a government Minister I have given a commitment to the Committee that this will happen. Noble Lords will know what happens if it does not.Lord Filkin
Hansard: Without wrecking our process by drifting into philosophy, there is a judgment about where that line is drawn—we had discussions about that this morning—on issues like this which are essentially about important administrative procedure. I think that we have to resist cluttering up primary legislation with detailed specifications of process. That is what guidance is for. I repeat: HansardLord Filkin
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
445Hansard: I will do my best. It starts with a recognition of the seriousness of special measures. We have spoken about that and I shall not elaborate upon it, but clearly it is understood that they are implemented only in a situation where a school is very seriously failing.445HansardLord Filkin
447: The clear and simple questions are always the worst, but I shall have a go.447Lord Filkin
452451: The amendment seeks to provide a greater statutory role for the diocesan authorities in the appointment of an inspector to inspect religious education and collective worship in the Church of England or Roman Catholic schools in England, or in Church in Wales or Roman Catholic schools in Wales. For the great majority of schools this is already custom and practice and works well. Schools already have existing close working relations with their diocese and are happy to take the recommendations of the diocese in appointing a suitably experienced and qualified inspector to undertake these inspections. Further, many dioceses actually relieve schools, at the schools' request, of the burden of arranging these inspections.452451Lord Filkin
: We would have to do something different, but that does not appear to be a problem.Lord Filkin
453Page 30, line 25, leave out "prescribed period" and insert "period prescribed for the purposes of this subsection"moved Amendment No. 97:
453Page 30, line 25, leave out "prescribed period" and insert "period prescribed for the purposes of this subsection"Lord Filkin
Page 80, line 10, leave out "prescribed period" and insert "period prescribed for the purpose of this sub-paragraph"moved Amendment No. 103:
Page 80, line 10, leave out "prescribed period" and insert "period prescribed for the purpose of this sub-paragraph"Lord Filkin
456455: I start by saying that I fully share the concern that Ofsted's early years inspection workforce is of the highest quality and fit for the purpose. We attach great importance to the training and development of inspectors.456455Lord Filkin
457"(5A) Regulations may make provision requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to notify prescribed persons of the fact that any child minding or day care provided by the registered person is to be inspected under this section."""(5A) After subsection (5) insert—Page 82, line 10, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 107:
457"(5A) Regulations may make provision requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to notify prescribed persons of the fact that any child minding or day care provided by the registered person is to be inspected under this section."""(5A) After subsection (5) insert—Page 82, line 10, at end insert—Lord Filkin
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,"(3A) Regulations may make provision—
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,Page 82, line 41, leave out from beginning to end of line 2 on page 83 and insert—Page 82, line 36, leave out "any prescribed authorities or persons" and insert "such other authorities or persons as may be prescribed""(aa) shall ensure that a copy of the report is sent to the registered person providing the child minding or day care that was inspected;"Page 82, line 34, at end insert—moved Amendments Nos. 108 to 110:
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,"(3A) Regulations may make provision—
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising a registered person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.'(b) requiring a registered person, except in prescribed cases, to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring a registered person to make a copy of any report sent to him under subsection (3)(aa) available for inspection by prescribed persons,Page 82, line 41, leave out from beginning to end of line 2 on page 83 and insert—Page 82, line 36, leave out "any prescribed authorities or persons" and insert "such other authorities or persons as may be prescribed""(aa) shall ensure that a copy of the report is sent to the registered person providing the child minding or day care that was inspected;"Page 82, line 34, at end insert—Lord Filkin
 moved Amendment No. 112:Lord Filkin
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.Page 85, line 6, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 114:
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.
(5) In sub-paragraph (4) "the responsible person", in relation to any relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding, means such person as may be prescribed.""(4) Regulations may make provision requiring the responsible person to notify prescribed persons of the fact that relevant nursery education or nursery education under consideration for funding provided by the responsible person is to be inspected under this paragraph.Page 85, line 6, at end insert—Lord Filkin
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,(2) Regulations may make provision—
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, and
(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, andPage 87, line 10, leave out from "delay" to end of line 14 and insert—
(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, and
(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, andmoved Amendment No. 121:
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,(2) Regulations may make provision—
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,
(c) authorising the responsible person in prescribed cases to charge a fee for providing a copy of the report.(b) requiring the responsible person to provide a copy of the report to prescribed persons, and(a) requiring the responsible person to make a copy of any report sent to him under sub-paragraph (l)(b)(i) available for inspection by prescribed persons,(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, and
(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, andPage 87, line 10, leave out from "delay" to end of line 14 and insert—
(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, and
(ii) to such other authorities and persons as may be prescribed."(i) to the responsible person, andLord Filkin
: Clause 53 and Schedule 8 amend Part 10 Chapter 1 of the Education Act 2002, which relates, as the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, said, to the inspection of independent schools. The amendments are of a technical nature and are required—as the noble Lord signalled—as a result of the discontinuance of the use of registered inspectors to inspect schools in England. Registered inspectors will still carry out inspections in Wales.Lord Filkin
: Before moving closure, I should like to correct a figure that was given earlier. We signalled that 1,200 schools had been closed by local authorities— which I thought at the time was going it somewhat. In fact, we believe the figure is 176.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, we welcome the additional support that the Government have sent to the expanded African Union mission. Of course we welcome that mission itself, which as the noble Baroness rightly says is unprecedented and greatly to be supported. We also, of course, welcome the Naivasha agreement ending Sudan's other war and any knock-on benefits that that may have for Darfur. But meanwhile the killing goes on and the atrocities continue.Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until 2.40 p.m.Lord Triesman
361: My Lords, what has been the difficulty in bringing up the AU force from the level that it has
361Lord Avebury
368367: I rise to support what the noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, said about Amendment No. 36 and to speak to my amendment. Amendment No. 37.368367The Earl of Listowel
"Evidence about the impact of designated teachers is mixed. Some schools allow non-contact time for designated teachers to liaise with other agencies … Elsewhere, designated teachers have few or no additional resources and can struggle to reconcile their different roles, particularly where they have to combine teaching and advocacy functions".A better education for children in care: I thank the noble Baroness for her helpful response. I did not know that the national minimum standard ensured that foster carers have a duty to be involved in school processes. That is welcome information."Evidence about the impact of designated teachers is mixed. Some schools allow non-contact time for designated teachers to liaise with other agencies … Elsewhere, designated teachers have few or no additional resources and can struggle to reconcile their different roles, particularly where they have to combine teaching and advocacy functions".A better education for children in careThe Earl of Listowel
: I apologise for intervening once more. Can the noble Baroness provide the Committee with more information about the experience in the pilots of parental involvement with the inspectors? What value did parents and inspectors place on these meetings? It would be helpful to have that.The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, I am a bit surprised. At one point my noble friend seemed to be saying that disposing of financial assets is entirely a matter for departments. Can my noble friend clarify that? Does he mean that the Treasury takes no interest whatever?Lord Barnett
: In view of the shortage of time for these inspections, does the noble Lord completely discount the possibility of parent governors taking that role? That is why they were constituted in the first place.The Earl of Sandwich
: I am very grateful to the Minister for her justification of this clause. Nevertheless, I am far from convinced of the necessity for this particular panel. I turn to the three functions which the noble Baroness described, the first of which is the advice on the inspector's remit. I would have thought it is very much a matter for the education committee of the Assembly. There is a statutory education committee and it is a matter for that committee and the Minister as to what the inspectorate's remit should be. Similarly, as regards the inspectorate's annual plan, that is surely a matter for the Minister to approve. It is not a matter on which to seek advice from a body of practitioners.Lord Roberts of Conway
"'Self-government is better than good government".: Shall we wait to see what the Minister has to say? Our concerns may be put to rest. However, I am so glad that the Conservative Party is now supporting devolution—and supporting it all the way, which it has not done in the past."'Self-government is better than good government".Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: We do not agree with this suggestion because not only have we given Wales devolved responsibility but also, when the subject and this Bill were discussed with them, Assembly Members said that they were in favour of it. This is not something from out of the blue. As Campbell-Bannerman said many years ago—Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: I am glad to hear it. Time after time in debates of this kind we hear arguments that certain powers should be retained by the Westminster Parliament, or that the Welsh Assembly should report to this place. However, we say that we have to trust the Welsh Assembly.Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: We oppose the amendment. The time has come for us to trust the Welsh Assembly. We have given Wales devolution, and we say that they need more powers. This is an opportunity for us to show that we mean what we say.Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: My Lords, is the Minister happy with the facilities to enable refugee doctors to learn English, and perhaps Welsh, in the different areas where major hospitals are situated?Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: I am very grateful to Members of the Committee who have contributed to this brief debate, and I am pleased to have the support of the noble Lords, Lord Dearing and Lord Sutherland.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
449448"( ) In exercising their duties and functions under this section, the governing body and the foundation governors of a school that is a Church of England school or a Roman Catholic Church school shall have regard to any advice issued by the appropriate diocesan authority."Page 30, line 3, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 96:
449448"( ) In exercising their duties and functions under this section, the governing body and the foundation governors of a school that is a Church of England school or a Roman Catholic Church school shall have regard to any advice issued by the appropriate diocesan authority."Page 30, line 3, at end insert—The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: I wish to comment briefly on the process and then on the amendments. In listening to this and to Tuesday's debates, I have constantly been struck by the difficulty that we face. I know that it is not the first time where one is trying to legislate in a simplifying way in the context of something that is much more complex. Many of the amendments fall in a sort of "no-person"s land" between a legislative process which is about freeing up and simplifying in a context in which people say, "Ah, but might there be problems and do we entirely trust each other?". The amendment is another example of that.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
424: One of the pleasures in taking part in this kind of debate is the evidence that there are very few ivory towers here. I do not live in an ivory tower. On Tuesday afternoon, when I was in
424The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
421: I have brief points to make. First, none of us is unaware of the importance of the work of LEAs. On the other hand, some of us are a little cautious about going back on what seems to be an admirable policy in lightening the burden of the bureaucracy—that much used word—in inspections.421The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness. The last thing that I want to be seen to be standing for is a ghetto mentality for voluntary-aided schools. I want to be clear on that question, and I speak for other groups as well.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, is there not an underlying problem that is very relevant to the noble Lord's question? There are large numbers of works of art that are publicly owned—sometimes by central government, sometimes by local government, and sometimes, indeed, by museums—sbut are not catalogued. Is it not undesirable that these assets should not be catalogued? That means that, first, they probably will not be looked after; and, secondly, they may be disposed of inappropriately by one means or another. Will the noble Lord encourage the cataloguing of all publicly owned works of art?Lord Marlesford
What arrangements, have been made in the National Health Service regarding the risk of an outbreak of avian influenza from South East Asia. asked Her Majesty's Government:
What arrangements, have been made in the National Health Service regarding the risk of an outbreak of avian influenza from South East Asia.Lord Chan
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply, but I wish to press him on some further points. First, will he consider further what public health messages should be disseminated to the public through primary care trusts; secondly, what advice should be given to those considering taking holidays in south-east Asia, given the difficulties encountered in the past two weeks in Thailand, Vietnam and China, where there have been regular outbreaks of avian flu, with deaths in the latest outbreak; and, thirdly, what information should travel agents disseminate?Lord Chan
: My Lords, perhaps I may press the Minister to answer the first part of my supplementary question on advice for primary care trusts to give to local residents.Lord Chan
354: My Lords, is the Minister aware that a number of centres have been helping refugee doctors,
354Lord Chan
: My Lords, it is worth bearing in mind that one of the conditions for receiving funding for particular projects from the central fund was that they had to demonstrate that they had plans for future sustainability. We are wise to the problems with central funding projects, in that one runs the risk that they may not continue. That is why we have ensured that partnerships are being put in place with pump-priming money that has been spent over the past four years.Lord Warner
: My Lords, we took the advice of our Refugee Health Professional Steering Group, which believes that it has fulfilled its original purpose to increase the awareness of the skills and knowledge offered by refugees. We made the final allocation of central funding in August 2004, but it will continue to be overseen by the steering group.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the noble Baroness is right that all those government departments have to work together. We have worked very hard to ensure that our work in the health sector fits with other polices across government. There is a close working relationship with colleagues in the Home Office, the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Education and Skills. It is a tribute to that close working relationship that the United Nations gave such a resounding vote of support to the work that we have undertaken in this area.Lord Warner
: My Lords, over the past four years we have invested over £2 million in providing support, advice and training for refugee health professionals. That has been good value for money as over 1,000 refugee doctors have benefited from the funding. We believe that at least 160 refugee doctors are now working in the NHS as a result of our support. Many more are beginning to reach the position where they can apply for jobs.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, there is a requirement on the doctors to demonstrate their mastery of English before they can practise in this country. Part of the support that we have given is to help doctors to attend language training courses and to improve their English so that they can practise medicine in this country.Lord Warner
355: My Lords, as I have said, there is a good close working relationship with the Home Office
355Lord Warner
: My Lords, I have said that we believe that at least 160 are now working in the NHS. There are over 1,000 doctors registered on the British Medical Association's refugee database and many of them are in the process of qualifying. As I tried to demonstrate in my reply, we hope that we shall see more of those doctors completing their qualifications and working in the National Health Service.Lord Warner
: My Lords, as I have said, we do not have any cases of avian flu in this country. A lot of attention has been given to primary care work and advice on the influenza conditions that we do have in this country during the winter. Doctors are well advised on that. Where there is a need to advise primary care trusts and doctors on public health grounds, the Chief Medical Officer will provide an alert in the normal way.Lord Warner
: My Lords, Defra has published a contingency plan for dealing with avian flu; it is available on its website. I shall look into the noble Baroness's point and write to her, but she may also wish to consult the Defra website.Lord Warner
: My Lords, it is the Government's longstanding practice to advise the travel industry on areas where people need to consider their decision to go or to take necessary health precaution before going. I see no need to amend that in the light of the avian flu situation. It is worth bearing in mind that there have been outbreaks of avian flu in Vietnam and Thailand in the past 12 months, with 45 cases in total.Lord Warner
: My Lords, we have a pandemic flu plan, whose revision is under way. The United States has pursued its own policy in this area. Antiviral drugs are very expensive and do not have an indefinite life. Our plans must be proportionate to the risk.Lord Warner
: My Lords, at present there is no confirmed evidence of person-to-person spread of avian influenza in south-east Asia. Guidance for the NHS on the detection, diagnosis and treatment of potential cases of avian flu has been prepared by the Health Protection Agency, in collaboration with the Department of Health, and is published on the HPA's website. Antiviral agents are available within the NHS for the treatment and prevention of infection.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Government have not only a plan but also a stockpile.Lord Warner
: Amendment No. 38, which is in the group, is similar to the two amendments that have been spoken to.Lord Hanningfield
: In tabling this amendment we felt very strongly that 99 per cent of head teachers would want the parents involved in the inspection. I agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Howe, that the speech of the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, was very persuasive. In a school where there are considerable problems with the head teacher, there might be difficulties as regards him wanting to have other people involved. That is a point the noble Lord made in his speech. However, I would be most concerned if the situation were not apparent to bodies other than parents, such as the local authority. That would ensure that the point was covered.Lord Hanningfield
378: I was pleased that the Minister basically agreed with our amendment that heads could call a meeting of parents. She went on to give several instances of where Ofsted could require meetings—for example, with the chairman of governors. Will this requirement be given to the school by Ofsted in notes of guidance during a pre-inspection phase, or something like that? Obviously, if a note goes to a school saying that a meeting with parents is desirable, the school is likely to arrange it. Although the noble Baroness has said several
378Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the noble Baroness for her replies. She will realise that we still have some concerns, although she has undertaken to write to us, in particular on the point about remuneration. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
"INSPECTION AT DISCRETION OF CHIEF INSPECTOR The Chief Inspector may inspect any school in Wales, in circumstances where he is not required by section 19(2)(b) or 27, where he may have cause for concern arising from his duty under section 19."After Clause 27, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 85:
"INSPECTION AT DISCRETION OF CHIEF INSPECTOR The Chief Inspector may inspect any school in Wales, in circumstances where he is not required by section 19(2)(b) or 27, where he may have cause for concern arising from his duty under section 19."After Clause 27, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
437: We were moving on so well that I felt trepidation at getting up again. In opposing the Question that Clause 21 shall stand part of the Bill we hope to elicit from the Minister more detail on how the advisory panel will operate, its remit and purpose. The Bill and Explanatory Notes provide scant information on the panel's remit. We do not even know how many members it will comprise. What role, therefore, does the noble Baroness envisage? We should be careful to ensure that we do not just create another quango.437Lord Hanningfield
: Perhaps I may support the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp. If the issue is not specifically laid down in legislation, what happens is that, over a period of two or three years, different people come and go and shortcuts are taken. Therefore, there needs to be more than just guidance. We keep getting assurances from the Government, but we would like to see some of these issues on the face of the Bill so that we know that they will still happen in three or four years' time. Ministers and inspectors come and go and some of these issues might be lost if they are not in the Bill. I support the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, on this issue. It covers not only this point but also several points in the Bill.Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for that reply, which was helpful. We shall analyse it further before the next stage of the Bill. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
Page 5, line 18, at end insert "where he may have cause for concern arising from his duty under section 2"moved Amendment No. 41:
Page 5, line 18, at end insert "where he may have cause for concern arising from his duty under section 2"Lord Hanningfield
412: I thank the Minister for that response. This is a difficult issue in many walks of life. As I have said before, I am the leader of a large council. The Audit Commission has asked for an assessment, but it has cut its staff and is now asking us to do a lot
412Lord Hanningfield
"REDUCING BURDEN OF INSPECTION ON SCHOOLS The Chief Inspector when conducting an inspection under section 5 shall exercise his functions with regard to the desirability of avoiding excessive administrative burdens being placed on governing bodies and head teachers of maintained schools."After Clause 5, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 33:
"REDUCING BURDEN OF INSPECTION ON SCHOOLS The Chief Inspector when conducting an inspection under section 5 shall exercise his functions with regard to the desirability of avoiding excessive administrative burdens being placed on governing bodies and head teachers of maintained schools."After Clause 5, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for those comments. As she gives us an assurance that this is available we shall read the Bill again. Meanwhile I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
: I realised that I was doomed when the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, opposed the amendment. I thank the noble Baroness for that very extensive response. I shall read what has been said. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
: It is clear from some of our debates that we have a diverging education system on either side of the border. It is separate and distinct, which is only right with the creation of the Welsh Assembly. As we said several times at Second Reading, it would have been advantageous if we could have had a separate Bill to deal with the specific elements relating to Wales.Lord Hanningfield
Hansard.463: As I said, we will return to the issue of registered inspectors and whether we should have a new list of registered inspectors, an issue that seemed to emerge in the debate earlier in the week.Hansard.463Lord Hanningfield
(c) make an annual report to the Assembly that shall additionally be laid before Parliament concerning his activities carried out under sections 54 and 55."Page 33, line 10, at end insert ", ormoved Amendment No. 125:
(c) make an annual report to the Assembly that shall additionally be laid before Parliament concerning his activities carried out under sections 54 and 55."Page 33, line 10, at end insert ", orLord Hanningfield
: I thank the noble Baroness for that explanation. I accept what she says. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
462: Clause 53 and Schedule 8 deal with changes to the inspection system of independent schools in England resulting from the removal of the category and responsibilities of registered inspectors. The status quo is therefore maintained in regard to Wales.462Lord Hanningfield
Page 83, line 14, leave out paragraph 6.moved Amendment No. 1ll:
Page 83, line 14, leave out paragraph 6.Lord Hanningfield
: I am sorry to interrupt the noble Lord again. The words I used were "separate", "distinct" and "only right with the creation of the Welsh Assembly". Devolution is right with regard to the Assembly. We seek to elicit from the Government their views on the provision before it devolves to the Assembly.Lord Hanningfield
466: I thank the noble Lord; that is exactly what we are saying. We agree with devolved responsibility, but we feel that there should be a little more discussion here. The Bill does not have enough detail to enable us to consider it.466Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for that. I was never going to vote to remove part of this clause. I opposed the Question, that Clause 61 stand part in order to get the sort of answer that we have just had. We felt—my noble friend Lord Roberts of Conwy was unable to stay for this debate—that there is a big chunk of the Bill about Wales but that there has not been that much discussion or amendments about it. Therefore it was not fair on Wales that we were not discussing this more. Yes, we have a Welsh Assembly; whether we agree with it or not it is here and has devolved powers. We felt that there should be more discussion in your Lordships' House.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, does the Minister recognise that one of the virtues of the victory that the House of Lords won two years ago was to remind the Treasury in this Administration that candle ends are still important?Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
: Perhaps I may ask the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, to expand on a point that he raised. I am grateful for his support. I do not usually enjoy much support on education matters from those Benches. It is an enjoyable position to be in. Amendment No. 38 appears to leave to the discretion of the head teacher whether a meeting should take place between parents and the chief inspector. In those few schools where there are real problems over leadership, does the noble Lord accept that the head teacher will often discourage such meetings taking place? Will the noble Lord reconsider leaving the matter solely at the discretion of the head teacher?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
366A New Relationship with Schools: I speak to my Amendment No. 36 which follows on from the contribution that we have just heard. On the first day of Committee my noble friends were particularly helpful in their responses and I hope that my noble friend will agree to consider this matter.366A New Relationship with SchoolsLord Hunt of Kings Heath
: If the parent governors were doing a good job, that would be perfectly possible. However, what about a school where the governing body is weak and has no control over a strong, assertive head? If parents make their concerns known to the governing body and find that nothing happens, what should they do? One of the great opportunities is to go and meet the inspectors. If a lot of parents turn up at the meeting, as they do with some inspections, the inspectorate at least knows that there are some issues that must be confronted. It is in such circumstances that we need the opportunity.Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
372: I support Amendment No. 39. Given the consequences of an inspection, how can a school be inspected without consulting or even seeing a body as important as the board of governors? To leave the governors out of the consideration seems entirely inappropriate.372Lord Lucas
: Perhaps I may use this opportunity to raise a perhaps rather esoteric point. From conversations outside this House, my understanding is that the new inspection regime will not involve contact between the inspector and the heads of department in a school, which used to be the case. I want to establish that that is true. The consequence I am aware of is that it seems possible that it will lead to the collapse of the present inspection system for independent schools. When Ofsted was set up, the ISCis swung in behind the system in the end. The argument which persuaded them to do that was that the benefit which would arise would be contact between the inspection team and the heads of subjects and departments and the way in which that would be used to spread good practice and improve the way in which all schools deal with it.Lord Lucas
: My Lords, the Minister has already mentioned the Home Office, so will he ask his colleagues in that department to ensure that their specialised agency providing services for asylum seekers makes the maximum possible use of refugee doctors, both while their qualifications are being recognised in this country and once they are recognised?Lord Hylton
: While the noble Baroness is still in action, perhaps she can clarify something for me. I read her amendment as a service rather than an imposition. Therefore, it is an offer that may or may not be accepted. My experience is that there are times when it is useful for schools to look to the LEA for advice. They may say, "You have the expertise. It may cost a few pounds, but we will pay you.". On that basis, I can say yes.Lord Dearing
: As one who has some involvement in the life of a Church of England school and has done previous work assisting in the development and thinking in Church of England schools, I intervene, having declared that interest, to say how very much I support these proposals. It is helpful to such schools to have the advice and guidance of the diocesan authority, although I note that it is to "have regard to" rather than to be told what to do, which I also welcome.Lord Dearing
per se450: I support the amendment. I was interested to hear the right reverend Prelate premise part of the practical proposals on an assumption that confidentiality would be kept by the
per se450Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: In speaking to Amendment No. 49 in this group, I pray in aid the support of my absent colleague, the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, who would wish to make some points that I shall try to describe.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: Before the Minister sits down, I want to add that as a former chief inspector I have much sympathy with the Government's position. The reservations expressed would be more easily allayed if a strong appeals procedure were established.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
369: I want to make three points about Amendment No. 39. First, I support the thrust and intention of the amendments grouped with mine. I spoke about that at Second Reading, so I shall not repeat my arguments about the importance of the parents' role in the process.369Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: Whether correctly or not, I attempted formally to move Amendment No. 39 and it is right that I should for the record formally withdraw it.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
358: My Lords, the Minister paints a very rosy picture, but is it not a fact that there is no
358Lord Clement-Jones
What action they propose to protect the category of heritage and cultural public assets identified in the Lyons report as "falling within the scope of the Government's proposals to meet their overall public asset disposal financial targets". asked Her Majesty's Government:
What action they propose to protect the category of heritage and cultural public assets identified in the Lyons report as "falling within the scope of the Government's proposals to meet their overall public asset disposal financial targets".Lord Clement-Jones
356: My Lords, it is that latter point which concerns many of those who have read the Lyons report. There is, as the Minister has confirmed, no central register relating to the disposal of heritage assets. As a result of government targets, which are to dispose of some £30 billion of publicly owned assets by 2010, there will be pressure on government departments. What
356Lord Clement-Jones
403402401: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and gallant Lord, Lord Craig of Radley, for arranging this opportunity to review the progress of the introduction of Eurofighter Typhoon. I declare a past interest: I served on the air staff in the late 1980s and early 1990s, under the noble and gallant Lord's leadership, and we were often interested in the progress of this project.403402401Lord Garden
409"It is absolutely tremendous to fly"."Typhoon is a fantastic aeroplane".Times408407406: My Lords, I too congratulate the noble and gallant Lord, Lord Craig, on securing this debate. I should like to thank him and the other noble Lords who have spoken for their contributions and particularly for their support, well expressed in every case, for this project. This project is an extremely important programme for the future.409"It is absolutely tremendous to fly"."Typhoon is a fantastic aeroplane".Times408407406The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
quis custodiet custodes391: I shall speak to Amendments Nos. 84, 89 and 90, to which I have added my name, although they share the imperfections that my noble friend on the Front Bench attributed to the similar system of appeal that is proposed for England by my noble friends. Amendment No. 49, spoken to by the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland, may well be more appropriate, although I am not sure that even that achieves perfection.quis custodiet custodes391Lord Roberts of Conwy
438"the Assembly discharges a range of responsibilities with regard to Estyn (the Chief Inspector's Office) related to appointments, agreement of terms and conditions and funding. Currently, there are no mechanisms to provide the Assembly with independent advice on such matters".: I, too, find it difficult to see why the Assembly requires a panel to advise it on matters relating to the inspectorate, bearing in mind that it has a Minister in the Assembly Government and a committee of Assembly Members dedicated to education. They also have Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Schools (HMCI), a Crown appointment, on which the Assembly is to be consulted.438"the Assembly discharges a range of responsibilities with regard to Estyn (the Chief Inspector's Office) related to appointments, agreement of terms and conditions and funding. Currently, there are no mechanisms to provide the Assembly with independent advice on such matters".Lord Roberts of Conwy
442: This is a valuable new clause in that it would give the chief inspector the right to inspect any school in Wales, whether required to do so or not by the Assembly or under Clause 27, if he has cause for concern arising from his general duty under Clause 19.442Lord Roberts of Conwy
: I have not participated in the debate but I have listened very carefully to it. The Minister referred to 400 parents who protested in advance of an inspection. Did the inspectors meet representatives of those 400? What was the further outcome, as it were, of that protest?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, does the noble Baroness the Leader of the House agree that the problems of the overstretched African Union mission are being exacerbated by the increasing hostility shown by the government of Sudan to international aid organisations, resulting for example in the murder of one worker from Medecins Sans Frontieres and the reluctant withdrawal of Save the Children Fund from Darfur?Baroness Cox
: My Lords, I just want to know why there are 30 different committees. Why cannot there just be one to deal with the disposal of the assets?Baroness O'Cathain
: My Lords, perhaps I may ask a question for clarification.Baroness O'Cathain
: My Lords, how many departments are there? Does each department now have a committee headed by an assistant secretary looking at the assets to be disposed of? Does each department then in turn have to register with the Treasury, or whatever, and say, "These are the assets we want to get rid of"? As the noble Lord, Lord Cement-Jones, said, would it not be much better to have a central register and a central group of people to look at all our assets, so that there is no second, third and fourth-time guessing?Baroness O'Cathain
Hansard: The school was judged to require special measures. Although I do not have much detailed background, I should imagine that the parents involved wished to draw quite a number of different aspects of the school to the inspectors' attention. I would have thought that almost certainly there would have been a meeting. I shall check on that and write to all noble Lords.HansardBaroness Andrews
377376375374373: We have had a good debate on an important group of amendments. My noble friend has already told me to stop nodding, but there is much that the Government can agree with in the spirit and intent of what has been said. I hope to be able to demonstrate that in my response. I want also to address the many concerns that have been expressed, such as time factors, the imperatives of the new system and what impact they will have on the processes and the people involved.377376375374373Baroness Andrews
383382: I am grateful to the noble Baronesses who have spoken on these amendments. We fully support the sentiments that have driven them. My noble friend Lady Turner has been a very powerful champion of Save the Children for many years. We fully agree with the importance of involving children and young people in the school inspection process. If we were asked what the school inspection process is for, our answer would be that it is for and about them, their education and their life chances. They have an important part to play in the inspection process. There is an increased emphasis on discussion with pupils under the new arrangements because of the vital element of self-evaluation.383382Baroness Andrews
385: Those are very important points in respect of children who are absent as a result of long-term sickness or have a history of being bullied. That is not to say that that is the only or best way in which the information could be conveyed. It certainly would also be picked up through the response of parents. I should have thought that if there are concerns about such important matters, the parents themselves would want to look at the construction of the questionnaire to ensure that they are adequately reflected.385Baroness Andrews
387: I hope that I can give the noble Baroness the assurance that she seeks. Clauses 13 and 15 provide that inspection reports are made available to all stakeholders. The provisions are wide, providing for the chief inspector to send copies of reports to specified persons and for the appropriate authority in the case of maintained schools, and the proprietor for non-maintained schools, to send copies of the full
387Baroness Andrews
: The answer is yes, there will certainly be a full statement, which will set out in detail what is expected. Of course 100 schools in relation to the 20,000 schools, or whatever, in England and Wales is a small number. But they are a representative sample—they were carefully chosen—and come from 15 LEAs. This summer there will be a further 100 in the rolling pilot. If the noble Lord would like me to do so, I shall be happy to send him more information about the nature of the pilots.Baroness Andrews
"The foster carer's role in school contact, e.g., parents evenings, open days, discussions with teachers, in conjunction with the birth parent where appropriate and in line with the care plan, is clearly laid out in the placement agreement".379"The fostering service requires foster carers to contribute to the assessment of the child's educational needs and progress for the planning and review process. The fostering service helps the foster carer to contribute to the delivery of any personal education plan".: Let me reply to those two points. First, as to the fostering service, I would refer the noble Earl to standard 13 of the national minimum standards. It is not quite as specific as I said. Standard 13.3 states:
"The foster carer's role in school contact, e.g., parents evenings, open days, discussions with teachers, in conjunction with the birth parent where appropriate and in line with the care plan, is clearly laid out in the placement agreement".379"The fostering service requires foster carers to contribute to the assessment of the child's educational needs and progress for the planning and review process. The fostering service helps the foster carer to contribute to the delivery of any personal education plan".Baroness Andrews
: I shall certainly try to do that.Baroness Andrews
441: Perhaps I may have the last word. As regards who sets the remit, it is advice which
441Baroness Andrews
440439: I am grateful for the support of one part of the Opposition. I hope to bring the other part round to my way of thinking by the time I have explained in a bit more detail what the panel is supposed to do. I take on board the specific questions asked by both noble Lords; if I cannot answer them all then I will write.440439Baroness Andrews
: I beg to move that the House do now resume. In moving the Motion I suggest that the Committee stage should begin again not before 2.40 p.m.Baroness Andrews
460459: The noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, has asked for the rationale of the clause, who will implement the powers that the clause provides, and whether we have had any difficulties with the power. Perhaps I should say first what the clause does not do as that should take care of both parts of the argument. It is very important that both the paragraph in Schedule 7 which the amendment seeks to remove and Clause 57 remain part of the Bill.460459Baroness Andrews
443: I can give the noble Lords the assurances they seek. They have sought to bring forward a power for the chief inspector to inspect any school in Wales irrespective of whether such an inspection had been specifically requested by the Assembly under the powers in Clause 19(20)(b) or was part of the cycle of regular school inspection provided for in Clause 27.443Baroness Andrews
464: I welcome the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Llandudno, to the Front Bench— what an eloquent start. If he supports the Government with that degree of conviction every time he stands up, we will be well pleased.464Baroness Andrews
468467: I am sorry that that lively debate has come to an end. To be called to arbitrate between the two Opposition parties is rather a luxurious position. Moreover, I am glad that the noble Lord has confirmed the welcome given by the Conservatives to devolution in Wales.468467Baroness Andrews
: I rise briefly to support all the amendments. There is a really important point of principle here and, wider than that, of natural justice. Clearly the old procedure had flaws and I am sure that that is being investigated by the Government. Indeed, I am hopeful that we shall hear from the Minister a satisfactory answer to all the points raised. The three issues are: first, it is imperative that there should be a short period before the report is published; secondly, the effect on parents and others of the standards provided by the schools should be taken into account; and, thirdly, it is important that an inspector should be independent of Ofsted. I hope that the Minister will be able to answer all those points and that he will be able to satisfy all those who tabled the amendments.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: I have put my name to Amendments Nos. 91 and 94 tabled by the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, but I agree with everything that she has said. It is not just a question of semantics or political correctness. The phrases in her amendments usually—but not always, as the noble Baroness indicated—show what a school needs; that is, the extra time, resources and staff needed to cope with the special needs of often multiply-damaged children. I had this argument years ago, when I served on the I LEA. Personally, I would pay teachers in such schools double and have a contract to ensure that they achieved whatever they declared they would achieve within a limited period. That is what schools need. They need more teachers—the best teachers—and outside support than schools in middle class areas that are better able to cope and to benefit from the education provided in the generality of schooling. I hope that, as well as approving these amendments, the Minister will indicate that these schools will get the extra resources that they undoubtedly need.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
370: I speak to Amendment No. 39 and support very much the intentions behind the other amendments in this group about which I shall say something later.370Baroness Howe of Idlicote
365New Inspections and the Viewpoint of Users364"( ) in the course of any inspection of a school to consult and have regard to the views of the head teacher, staff, parents, pupils and governors of that school,"Page 3, line 39. after "prescribed," insert—moved Amendment No. 22:
365New Inspections and the Viewpoint of Users364"( ) in the course of any inspection of a school to consult and have regard to the views of the head teacher, staff, parents, pupils and governors of that school,"Page 3, line 39. after "prescribed," insert—Baroness Walmsley
380: I thank the Minister for her careful comments on the issue. I hope that she does not really think it was patronising of me to raise the issue of low literacy and minority languages. It is not patronising but realistic in a situation where some schools have as little as 2 per cent of pupils who have English as a first language. But I very much welcome her statement that minority languages would be used where appropriate for the questionnaires.380Baroness Walmsley
384: Before the Minister sits down, perhaps I may raise one short point. The Minister pointed out that during assemblies schools will tell pupils about the inspections, about which there is an obligation to inform parents because they do not attend assemblies and are not in school every day. I accept that.384Baroness Walmsley
: I thank the Minister for his reply. In the past, a third of inspection services have been provided by local authorities. In the new situation of the "light touch" and the "single conversation", it could well be that more LEAs would be interested in providing such services in the future. I thought that the suggestion that they should continue to be allowed to do so as the prime mover was interesting. I accept what the Minister said about advisers being able to subcontract, but that is not the same as being in charge of the inspection. I shall read the Minister's comments carefully and consider whether we shall want to come back to this. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
423Bringing down the barriersPage 7, line 1, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert "that the school is in need of additional support"moved Amendment No. 53:
423Bringing down the barriersPage 7, line 1, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert "that the school is in need of additional support"Baroness Walmsley
: The noble Lord is correct. The amendment refers to the tendering process. It is a service that would be offered.Baroness Walmsley
: I shall certainly attempt to answer the question, although if I am wrong, I shall write to the right reverend Prelate about it. I do not think that the amendment would restrict that. Religious education is inspected by appropriate people, and I do not think that my amendment would get in the way of that.Baroness Walmsley
427: I thank the Minister for his reply. I am delighted that 1,200 schools in special measures have turned around, but I do not believe that it is necessarily down to the term "special measures". On the contrary, I believe that it is down to the big package of support that they receive.427Baroness Walmsley
: Although just a few minutes ago I said that England and Wales do not always have to be the same because they are very different countries, particularly in size, on this occasion I think there is merit in the proposed new clause. The reason I say that is that to a great extent children have only one chance at their education, although there are reparatory mechanisms available—sometimes, sadly, in the education department of a young offender's institution. We all know how difficult that can be. So if there is a need to get in quickly if there is immediate cause for concern and the chief inspector believes that an inspector will be able to identify clearly what the problems are and kick into place mechanisms to help put things right then there is no reason why that should not be as valid in Wales as in England. I support this amendment.Baroness Walmsley
: On these Benches we do not support the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy. We feel that the Assembly might perhaps be somewhat undermined. It should be allowed to keep its panel. The situation in Wales, as people often say, is somewhat different. In England we have the Education Select Committee in another place; they do not have that in Wales, therefore an advisory panel of experts may very well be most useful in advising the Assembly on inspection matters. Wales is different and I would like to see Clause 21 left in the Bill.Baroness Walmsley
: I shall speak to Amendment No. 34, which stands in my name in this group of amendments. The purpose of this small amendment is to ensure that at the beginning of the process, when parents are being notified about the timing of an inspection, pupils are also informed in their own right. If pupils are to be genuine stakeholders in the school process, they too should be informed. I am quite aware that most schools will be very anxious to tell pupils that inspectors are coming in because they want pupils to be on their best behaviour. But I want to enshrine in statute an equal right for children in the school to have that information. That would respect their dignity and their position in the school. They are vital participants in the school community. I know that it is a small matter, but it is important because it recognises the dignity and the position of the children.Baroness Walmsley
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area.
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area."PROVISION OF INSPECTION SERVICES BY LEAs IN ENGLAND
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area.
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area.After Clause 10, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 52:
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area.
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area."PROVISION OF INSPECTION SERVICES BY LEAs IN ENGLAND
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area.
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,
(c) make such incidental and supplemental provision with respect to school inspection services provided by local education authorities as the Secretary of State considers appropriate."(b) make provision with respect to the accounts to be kept by local education authorities in connection with any school inspection services provided by them, and(a) make provision as to the making of tenders by local education authorities in England,(5) The Secretary of State may by regulations—(4) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England must be operated by the authority in such a way as can reasonably be expected to ensure that the full cost of providing the service is recovered by way of charges made by the authority to those using the service.420(3) Any school inspection service provided by a local education authority in England may, in addition to providing for the inspection of schools which are maintained by them, provide for the inspection of schools which are not maintained by them.(2) In this section "school inspection service", in relation to any local education authority in England, means a service providing for the inspection of schools (other than Academies, city technology colleges and city technology colleges for the technology of the arts) under section 5 by officers of the authority.(1) Any local education authority in England may provide a school inspection service for schools within their area.After Clause 10, insert the following new clause—Baroness Walmsley
: Perhaps I may ask the Minister a question about something that he has just said. If an existing faith-based academy were not willing to change its funding contract, what would the Government do?Baroness Walmsley
359: My Lords, perhaps I may press the Minister further on the arrangements already made, should there be an outbreak of avian flu in this country.
359Baroness Neuberger
: My Lords, perhaps I can press the Minister further. Given that only 160 out of over 1,000 refugee doctors that we know about are at present working, does he feel that still more could be done? For those who are ready to work and who can be registered by the GMC, but who are prevented by immigration rules, could an exception be made, given that we are so short of doctors in this country?Baroness Neuberger
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply. Indeed, the Government have done extraordinarily well in supporting refugee doctors thus far. Until August 2004, the money to support refugee doctors was held centrally and now it has been spread out to the special health authorities, to the strategic health authorities and to the Workforce Development Confederation. Will the Government consider reinstating central funding to support refugee doctors because refugee doctors move around so much and local funding makes it difficult for them to reach the support that has already been given to them by the Government?Baroness Neuberger
Whether they will provide the necessary support for refugee doctors in order for them to qualify to work in the National Health Service. asked Her Majesty's Government:
Whether they will provide the necessary support for refugee doctors in order for them to qualify to work in the National Health Service.Baroness Neuberger
"who has been head of the 900-pupil school in Harborne for 15 years, and who launched a high-profile complaint against the Ofsted inspection system in February, plans to lake her concerns to an independent adjudicator, I have no confidence in the system', she said. "I would advise anyone with concerns who is going through the complaints procedure to keep on going because they need to be challenged?"."Ofsted admitted this weekend that the inspection team for Lordswood failed to give an accurate and fair portrayal in the section relating to leadership and management of the school. It has promised to amend the report and add an addendum on its website about the school"."Lordswood Girls' School—judged in government league tables to be the best in the country for improving pupil performance—is planning to sue Ofsted after discovering that two pages of a critical review were identical to an earlier report on Parkside School in Bradford.Observer418"is privileged unless the publication is shown to have been made with malice"."For the purposes of the law of defamation any report published by the Chief Inspector under either of those provisions"Page 6, line 16, leave out subsection (3).moved Amendment No. 48:
"who has been head of the 900-pupil school in Harborne for 15 years, and who launched a high-profile complaint against the Ofsted inspection system in February, plans to lake her concerns to an independent adjudicator, I have no confidence in the system', she said. "I would advise anyone with concerns who is going through the complaints procedure to keep on going because they need to be challenged?"."Ofsted admitted this weekend that the inspection team for Lordswood failed to give an accurate and fair portrayal in the section relating to leadership and management of the school. It has promised to amend the report and add an addendum on its website about the school"."Lordswood Girls' School—judged in government league tables to be the best in the country for improving pupil performance—is planning to sue Ofsted after discovering that two pages of a critical review were identical to an earlier report on Parkside School in Bradford.Observer418"is privileged unless the publication is shown to have been made with malice"."For the purposes of the law of defamation any report published by the Chief Inspector under either of those provisions"Page 6, line 16, leave out subsection (3).Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I am grateful to the Minister for his response and for the intervention of the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland. We had a lengthy discussion this morning on complaints and appeals procedures. It is right that we have an acceptable form of complaints procedure within the framework of the inspection regime. Clearly, as a Crown appointee Her Majesty's Chief Inspector is covered by the defence of qualified privilege. As the Minister said, the clause reinforces that, and it was helpful to have his explanation. I had not realised that it was a straight re-enactment, so I am grateful to the Minister for his elucidation. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for his reply. Yes, he has elucidated the purposes of the clause. We were particularly concerned about whether this requirement for "significant improvement" gave the inspector power to intervene rapidly on those occasions. It is reassuring to know that there will be a regular inspection process after a year. In view of those reassurances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"This clause replaces section 3(1) of the SIA [School Inspections Act] 1996 and gives the Chief Inspector the power to inspect any school at any time, even when not under a duty to do so under clause 2(2)(b) or clause 5. This allows the Chief Inspector to inspect any school where he may have cause for concern in respect of his general duty under clause 2. It also enables the Chief Inspector to conduct inspections for a range of purposes, including monitoring visits by HMI to schools in special measures, visits to schools to aid him in keeping the Secretary of State informed under clause 2, or to contribute to reports on, for example, the teaching in a single curriculum subject"."The Chief Inspector may inspect any school in England, in circumstances where he is not required by section 2(2)(b) or 5 to do so".Page 5, line 17, after "may" insert ", having first sought and secured the approval of the Secretary of State,"moved Amendment No. 40:
"This clause replaces section 3(1) of the SIA [School Inspections Act] 1996 and gives the Chief Inspector the power to inspect any school at any time, even when not under a duty to do so under clause 2(2)(b) or clause 5. This allows the Chief Inspector to inspect any school where he may have cause for concern in respect of his general duty under clause 2. It also enables the Chief Inspector to conduct inspections for a range of purposes, including monitoring visits by HMI to schools in special measures, visits to schools to aid him in keeping the Secretary of State informed under clause 2, or to contribute to reports on, for example, the teaching in a single curriculum subject"."The Chief Inspector may inspect any school in England, in circumstances where he is not required by section 2(2)(b) or 5 to do so".Page 5, line 17, after "may" insert ", having first sought and secured the approval of the Secretary of State,"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I, too, thank the Minister for his very full and helpful response and other noble Lords for participating in the debate. This is an important debate on a serious issue. I believe we shall return to it because, although the Minister has given us reassurances, it seems to me that it is important to have on the face of the Bill at least the form of wording in Amendment No. 49, which states that, "Regulations shall provide".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
389Official Report"There will also be an independent complaints adjudicator who will be able to examine complaints about the way in which the inspection has been conducted and the way in which Ofsted has handled such complaints".—[Official Report"Ofsted is currently developing a new complaints handling procedure to accompany the system of inspection. The procedure will make it clear that judgments about inspections can be challenged and will be considered seriously and fully".388If you remain dissatisfied with OFSTED's response, you will be informed of your right of recourse to the OFSTED Complaints Adjudicator (OCA). The OCA provides an external and independent element to the procedures and may only accept a case once OFSTED's internal procedures have been exhausted. The
388"the response will include an apology, an explanation and, if necessary, an indication of what steps have or will be taken to put the matters right. Where allegations or complaints are not upheld the response will say so and explain why. Every effort will be made to reach authoritative conclusions. However, where the Head of Division is presented with two conflicting views and there is no compelling evidence to support either account, it is likely that the outcome of the investigation will be inconclusive."If your complaint is fully or partially upheld"—( ) to establish a complaints procedure by which the appropriate body for a maintained school or the proprietor of a non-maintained school may complain about the conduct of any section 5 inspection or the findings of the report of a section 5 inspection"Page 3, line 41, at end insert ", andmoved Amendment No. 25:
389Official Report"There will also be an independent complaints adjudicator who will be able to examine complaints about the way in which the inspection has been conducted and the way in which Ofsted has handled such complaints".—[Official Report"Ofsted is currently developing a new complaints handling procedure to accompany the system of inspection. The procedure will make it clear that judgments about inspections can be challenged and will be considered seriously and fully".388If you remain dissatisfied with OFSTED's response, you will be informed of your right of recourse to the OFSTED Complaints Adjudicator (OCA). The OCA provides an external and independent element to the procedures and may only accept a case once OFSTED's internal procedures have been exhausted. The
388"the response will include an apology, an explanation and, if necessary, an indication of what steps have or will be taken to put the matters right. Where allegations or complaints are not upheld the response will say so and explain why. Every effort will be made to reach authoritative conclusions. However, where the Head of Division is presented with two conflicting views and there is no compelling evidence to support either account, it is likely that the outcome of the investigation will be inconclusive."If your complaint is fully or partially upheld"—( ) to establish a complaints procedure by which the appropriate body for a maintained school or the proprietor of a non-maintained school may complain about the conduct of any section 5 inspection or the findings of the report of a section 5 inspection"Page 3, line 41, at end insert ", andBaroness Sharp of Guildford
436Hansard: I am grateful to the Minister for his further clarification. Obviously it is extremely useful to have in 436HansardBaroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for that clarification. In some senses it is reassuring. It raises exactly the same issues as those we talked about in relation to appeals procedures and the involvement of pupils, and so forth. We have the assurance that of course this will happen and that it will be set out in guidance. Yet, in a sense there is always the question of, "Is it going to be set out in guidance?". Is it not useful to have at least some short mention of these issues in the Bill in order to make sure that guidance is there and that it follows the wishes of the legislature? That is the reason for seeking to have this provision written on to the face of the Bill.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
433Page 8, line 18, after "must" insert", after consultation with the appropriate body for a maintained school and the head teacher of that school"moved Amendment No. 65:
433Page 8, line 18, after "must" insert", after consultation with the appropriate body for a maintained school and the head teacher of that school"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
430"such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure ‖every registered parent of a registered pupil".: I shall speak to Amendments Nos. 61 and 63 in my name and that of my noble friend Lady Walmsley. These minor amendments seek to clarify the wording of the Bill and to extend its provisions to pupils.430"such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure ‖every registered parent of a registered pupil".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank my noble friend for that long and detailed explanation of the Government's position. I am glad that she at least accepts the principles involved in all these amendments.Baroness Turner of Camden
381Page 3, line 41, after "inspection" insert "(including an age-appropriate report for registered pupils)"member moved Amendment No. 23:
381Page 3, line 41, after "inspection" insert "(including an age-appropriate report for registered pupils)"Baroness Turner of Camden
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,Page 3, line 41, at end insert "and for it to be made available to—
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,moved Amendment No. 24:
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,Page 3, line 41, at end insert "and for it to be made available to—
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,
(iii) in relation to a school falling within paragraphs (d) to (g) of section 5(2), the proprietor of the school"(ii) and in relation to a community, foundation or voluntary school, a community or foundation special school or a maintained nursery school, the school's governing body or, if the school does not have a delegated budget to the local education authority, and(i) the headteacher, staff, parents, pupils of that school,Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for her answer and look forward to receiving further information if she sends it to me. I am reassured by her answer, so beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I was not clear from the Minister's answer to the noble Baroness, Lady Neuberger, whether the Government have any plans to stockpile the antiviral drug Tamiflu, which remains our only and best avenue to tackle an outbreak of avian influenza.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his reply and I am very glad that he said he will send us some examples. I was going to ask whether such examples existed. We shall look at them with interest and, for the moment, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
Page 7, line 3, at end insert "or (c) that the school is likely to fail,"moved Amendment No. 54:
Page 7, line 3, at end insert "or (c) that the school is likely to fail,"Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his reply. I am not unsympathetic to his comments, the proposals in the Bill, or. indeed, the previous amendment proposed by the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley. I am mindful how positive language can help enormously in a paradigm shift. However, I am concerned that warmer language should not simply be an excuse for inaction. We need to examine this again and I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
429Page 7, line 5, after "writing," insert "including a summary of the report"moved Amendment No. 55:
429Page 7, line 5, after "writing," insert "including a summary of the report"Baroness Morris of Bolton
390: My Lords, I support the amendment and shall also speak to Amendments Nos. 46, 60, 74, 84, 89 and 90.I note with interest that the intention of Amendment No. 46 is similar to a number of amendments tabled by noble Lords from all opposition Benches. I shall own up now to say that our amendment is undoubtedly the weakest in drafting terms.390Baroness Morris of Bolton
397: We thank the noble Lord for his very detailed response. We want to take time and care to digest what he has said. Appeals must not only be fair but also be seen to be fair. I believe that the
397Baroness Morris of Bolton
417Page 6, line 15, after "electronic" insert "and other"moved Amendment No. 47:
417Page 6, line 15, after "electronic" insert "and other"Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for that reply. I hope that the chief inspector will be mindful that this issue has been the subject of debate. The Internet is not all singing and dancing. If we believe that that is the only means of communicating we will not ensure that everyone who has a right to read the reports has access to them. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment at this stage, but I may well return to it.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his reply. I will indeed wait with eager anticipation. For the moment, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
454au faitPage 81, line 21, leave out paragraph 1.moved Amendment No. 104:
454au faitPage 81, line 21, leave out paragraph 1.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his detailed and direct reply.Baroness Morris of Bolton
444Page 29, line 2, leave out "and" and insert "or"moved Amendment No. 92:
444Page 29, line 2, leave out "and" and insert "or"Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his reply. Sometimes the leadership is not particularly good but pupils still do quite a good job because of their wonderful teachers. As long as there is pre-emptive action to ensure that poor leadership does not permeate downwards, effectively causing the children to suffer, we are satisfied. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
446: I am here under my own flag now. Clause 44 alters the power contained in the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 for the Secretary of State or, in Wales, the Assembly to direct a local education authority to close a school that is causing concern.446Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, four government departments—the Department of Health, the Department for Education and Skills, the Department for Work and Pensions and the Home Office—have a role to play in regard to refugee doctors. Can the Minister explain what steps are being taken to ensure the successful collaboration of those departments?Baroness Morris of Bolton
392: I also support all the amendments—particularly Amendment No. 49, which certainly comes closest to addressing the points
392Baroness Perry of Southwark
371: I offer my support for all these amendments, although my name supports only Amendment No. 38. There is a great body of research that shows the importance of the relationship which children sense between their home values and the school. The more a child feels that there is continuity of understanding between the parents—or whichever one it is living with—and the teacher, the more the child's work improves and it thrives as an individual. Sadly, the reverse is true. The more the child senses that the parents and the parental home are at variance with the values and understanding of the school, the more the child's work is liable to suffer. The visible example of the parents being brought in at a meeting at which the performance of the school is being discussed with the involvement of the parents is an immensely valuable part of the inspection experience.371Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, when the outbreak occurred, there was a temporary ban on the import of wild birds into this country as part of the caged-bird trade. Has that ban, which expired a month or so ago, been renewed? Notwithstanding all the welfare and biodiversity arguments against the capture of wild birds, does the Minister think that the ban should be in place permanently on health grounds?Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
362: My Lords, the noble Baroness will be aware that we have said consistently that the government of Sudan have to take very seriously indeed the issue of providing security to the citizens of Darfur. When my right honourable friend the Prime Minister was in Sudan, one of the things he did was to press the government of Sudan not only on wider human rights issues but on these issues of access and security. We have been monitoring very closely the commitments made by the government of Sudan not only in response to that visit but also in response to visits by my right honourable friends the Secretary of State for International Development and the Foreign Secretary.362Baroness Amos
: My Lords, a major part of the problem has been logistical. This is the first such mission on this scale undertaken by the AU under its new peace and security mandate, which is partly why we have given so much logistical support, including 143 vehicles and support on the management side.Baroness Amos
"The strengthening of the AU force on the ground has proved to be effective not only in performing monitoring tasks, but also … in protecting the civilian population by a combination of deterrence, mediation and good offices".: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Alton, is right to say that we need to continue to focus on Darfur. The signing of the comprehensive peace agreement offers up some opportunities but we must ensure that what is happening in Darfur is consistent with the peace agreement."The strengthening of the AU force on the ground has proved to be effective not only in performing monitoring tasks, but also … in protecting the civilian population by a combination of deterrence, mediation and good offices".Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the United Kingdom fully supports the African Union's efforts to resolve the conflict in Darfur. We have allocated over £40 million to support the mission, from which we have provided significant logistical support, including 143 vehicles. We have also seconded a UK military officer to the AU to provide technical support.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, I hope that the noble Lord, Lord Howell, recognises as a result of what I and others have said across the Dispatch Box that we have been very tough indeed. He will know from his own experience that part of what we are doing is negotiating with other nations through the Security Council. A number of members of the Security Council are, for example, concerned about moving to the imposition of sanctions. The EU has had an arms embargo against Sudan for many years. We should like to see that extended to a UN embargo. That has not been achieved yet, but, in his report last night to the Security Council, Jan Pronk made a number of recommendations with respect to taking it forward.Baroness Amos
"simple, low cost metering solutions, fair arrangements in place to recognise the contribution that microgeneration makes to network costs [and] … simple, standardised arrangements for network connection"."can be two to three times the cost of bulk power"."Transmission and distribution … costs (including capital, as well as operating costs, such as tree trimming, transformer replacement, and resistance loss)"—482"Simplification of procedures is therefore absolutely necessary".481: My Lords, when my noble friend Lord Lea came in and asked me why there were so many references to Woking, his answer was, "I have seen a notice on South West Trains this morning which stated 'Please do not use this lavatory at a station', and someone had scribbled underneath it 'except at Woking'". I do not know whether there is any connection, but it seemed quite funny. I am sorry that the noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Chesterton, is no longer in his place."simple, low cost metering solutions, fair arrangements in place to recognise the contribution that microgeneration makes to network costs [and] … simple, standardised arrangements for network connection"."can be two to three times the cost of bulk power"."Transmission and distribution … costs (including capital, as well as operating costs, such as tree trimming, transformer replacement, and resistance loss)"—482"Simplification of procedures is therefore absolutely necessary".481Lord Berkeley
:Oh!Noble Lords
499:My Lords, I have an interest to declare; I support, under the aegis of Her Majesty the Queen, retention of the Commonwealth united by common allegiance to the Crown. I also support the retention of the established Church. Whatever may be the intendment, and I say this with respect to the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, it simply is not possible to ring-fence the consequence of enactment of this Bill touching the succession to the throne as affecting the Commonwealth or the established Church as proposed by Clause 6(2). It just is not possible.499Lord Campbell of Alloway
498Official Report"A major constitutional measure of this sort ought properly to be the subject of a government Bill. We shall be considering how best to carry this forward within government and in consultation with the Royal Family".—[Official ReportOfficialReport"There can be no real reason for not giving equal treatment to men and women in this respect … We do not think that, whatever its merits, a Private Peer's Bill is an appropriate vehicle for so important a change as the one we have been debating".— [OfficialReport"The Cabinet have advised the Queen to give her consent and Her Majesty has signified her intention to do so"."there are few more absurd pieces of legislation on the statute book".497496: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.498Official Report"A major constitutional measure of this sort ought properly to be the subject of a government Bill. We shall be considering how best to carry this forward within government and in consultation with the Royal Family".—[Official ReportOfficialReport"There can be no real reason for not giving equal treatment to men and women in this respect … We do not think that, whatever its merits, a Private Peer's Bill is an appropriate vehicle for so important a change as the one we have been debating".— [OfficialReport"The Cabinet have advised the Queen to give her consent and Her Majesty has signified her intention to do so"."there are few more absurd pieces of legislation on the statute book".497496Lord Dubs
515514:My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have contributed to a very interesting debate. It has confirmed my view that there are depths of knowledge in this House about all sorts of issues which only surface when debates of this kind take place.515514Lord Dubs
:My Lords, I sympathise, but I have to be honest and say that I cannot see the current pressure of work subsiding to such an extent that that will get urgent consideration.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
:My Lords, we have all learned a lot during the course of this debate. I hope that in the light of what I have said my noble friend Lord Dubs will not press the Bill to a Second Reading.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I have it in command from Her Majesty the Queen to acquaint the House that Her Majesty, having been informed of the purport of the Succession to the Crown Bill, has consented to place her Prerogative and Interest, so far as they are affected by the Bill, at the disposal of Parliament for the purposes of the Bill.The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
513"as a country without a written constitution, we depend, more than most, on symbolism, on historical precedent and subtle linkages between Crown, Parliament and Church. None of those is unalterable, but we need to get out of our minds the idea that it is possible to make a few simple changes without the risk of triggering off a whole series of other changes which might be far from what we want".512511"whosoever shall hereafter come to the possession of this Crown shall join in communion with the Church of England as by law established",510:My Lords, this has been a fascinating debate for a variety of reasons. First, we heard two right reverend Prelates set out diametrically opposed positions. Secondly, we were treated to a genuinely fascinating account from the noble Earl, Lord Mar and Kellie, about how to inherit an earldom in Scotland. We also heard from the noble Lord, Lord Monson. I may not have understood his speech but the first part of it said that from now on only men can inherit the Crown, thus going even further than was suggested. We heard from the noble Earl, Lord Mar and Kellie, a reference to the principle of ultimogeniture, which personally I find very attractive. And perhaps most fascinating of all was the encyclopaedic knowledge of the noble Lord, Lord Strathclyde, of the procedural requirements to marry a member of a European Royal Family. For Members of the Lords who are interested, it was very useful and I am grateful to him for that.513"as a country without a written constitution, we depend, more than most, on symbolism, on historical precedent and subtle linkages between Crown, Parliament and Church. None of those is unalterable, but we need to get out of our minds the idea that it is possible to make a few simple changes without the risk of triggering off a whole series of other changes which might be far from what we want".512511"whosoever shall hereafter come to the possession of this Crown shall join in communion with the Church of England as by law established",510Lord Falconer of Thoroton
492491490"a duty to look after the earth",489488487: My Lords, like many noble Lords, I really welcome the opportunity to debate the vital issues that have been raised by this Bill. I thank the noble Lord, Lord Redesdale, for giving us this opportunity and all the other noble Lords who have taken part in the debate, not as a matter of ritual but because their comments have added to fundamental discussions. I have taken note of some of the good examples of local authorities that have been introduced as adding weight to the clauses—in Merton and Woking. I am sorry to hear about what is being written in train lavatories about Woking. I do not know Woking at all, but I am sure that it is entirely unjustified.492491490"a duty to look after the earth",489488487Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I do not want to add to what I have said about the state of devolution. The responsibilities, in my view, plainly lie with the devolved authorities.Lord Triesman
506Hansard505:My Lords, I am attracted to the Bill for several reasons and I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, on having introduced it. I begin by declaring that I am the beneficiary of systems of male primogeniture which have obviously led to my becoming a double-headed Earl and Hereditary Keeper of Stirling Castle, as well as becoming what the Lord Lyon King-of-Arms calls the Head of the name of Erskine—a fine definition among lowlanders.506Hansard505The Earl of Mar and Kellie
504Paparazzo:My Lords, perhaps I may be permitted to make a couple of points in the gap. I pay tribute to the characteristic idealism of the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, in relation to Clause 1, but on this occasion his idealism runs up against the sad realities of our time. No one disputes for one moment that, as he said, a female monarch can carry out her duties just as splendidly as any male monarch. That has been obvious for over four centuries and never more so than in the past 52 years.504PaparazzoLord Monson
474: My Lords, I welcome the Bill. It urges the Government to encourage individuals and communities to play their part in using the Earth's natural resources more efficiently, and in doing so to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That will reduce the rise in global temperatures, whose devastating effects we are already seeing, particularly in high temperatures but also in relation to food—in China, for example—and eventually in sea levels. Higher sea levels mean that coastal communities are much more susceptible to the kind of earth-shattering events of the past month.474Lord Hunt of Chesterton
: My Lords, I am sure that the noble Baroness will remember that Woking went off the grid. These things can be done off the grid.Lord Hunt of Chesterton
530529528527526"It is widely accepted that there must be diversification".525: My Lords. I thank the noble Lord, Lord Newby, for securing the debate and all other noble Lords for their contributions. We have to start from a position where everybody in the Chamber has the greatest possible sympathy for the plight of the Caribbean banana growers. I hope in the next few minutes to explore what we can do with our colleagues in Europe to help.530529528527526"It is widely accepted that there must be diversification".525Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
:My Lords, I just point out that there are a couple of circumstances in which the wife does retain her status. Daughters of Peers marrying a commoner or someone of lower rank retain their original status. For instance, the daughter of a duke marrying a baron would retain her status. My mother, the Countess of Erroll, on marrying Captain Ian Moncrieff retained her status as the Countess of Erroll. Even when he was promoted to baronet she still retained her status as the Countess of Erroll.The Earl of Erroll
"This Act extends to the United Kingdom only".501"(being joined) in communion with the Church of England as by law established"."absolutely necessary for the safety peace and quiet of this realm","the position of the Crown as the Head of the Established Church","the proposal in my Bill would not in itself affect the position of the Crown as the Head of the Established Church".500"an outdated piece of religious bigotry".Guardian:My Lords, we could spend fascinating days exploring the potential implications of those provisions that the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, has included in his Bill, but also speculating why he has not included other closely related and logically connected provisions that have been energetically canvassed in recent years by the Fabian commission, as he mentioned, among others."This Act extends to the United Kingdom only".501"(being joined) in communion with the Church of England as by law established"."absolutely necessary for the safety peace and quiet of this realm","the position of the Crown as the Head of the Established Church","the proposal in my Bill would not in itself affect the position of the Crown as the Head of the Established Church".500"an outdated piece of religious bigotry".GuardianThe Lord Bishop of Winchester
477476"prudent use of natural resources—by reducing the nation's reliance on everdiminishing supplies of fossil fuels".475: My Lords, it has been suggested that a debate on wind would not be complete without a contribution from these Benches. We should be grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Redesdale, for promoting the Bill. The sheer volume of Questions asked in your Lordships' House on the various aspects of energy policy indicates the very wide concerns that exist in all parts of the House. The Starred Questions have sometimes seemed a bit repetitive; this Bill and debate have an entirely fresh and innovative feel to them.477476"prudent use of natural resources—by reducing the nation's reliance on everdiminishing supplies of fossil fuels".475The Lord Bishop of Chester
503:My Lords, I hope that it is helpful to say that while I feel reasonably confident that the views of my colleague, the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Winchester are representative of where most bishops in the Church of England might be thought to stand on an issue of this kind, there are those of us who think differently. It is important to place that on the record and I support the comments, ideas and, to some extent, the Bill of the noble Lord, Lord Dubs.503The Lord Bishop of Worcester
:My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord for giving way. When the Government's legislative programme allows, will he give urgent attention to the fact that the wives of the Lords Spiritual remain untitled? It is a very serious discriminatory matter.The Lord Bishop of Worcester
"Money and greed have been elevated to the status of a religion and care and concern are now regarded as a vice. Our future is now on a life support system. However, I am confident that our resourcefulness and faith will see us through"."A plot with a few dozen marijuana plants on a smallholding will fetch up to 30 times more per kilo than a farmer's banana crop. It is reckoned that St Vincent can now count marijuana as its principal export crop. The cultivation is also … on the increase in Grenada and Dominica"."The significant achievements of the islands' governments in pursuing democracy and good governance would be severely threatened, as those in power struggled to cope with rising deprivation and social unrest. Low prices, together with the uncertainty over the future of the banana industry, have led to a loss of confidence among farmers. Some are already leaving the land, and unemployment is rising. There is a very real danger that farmers could resort to what, for many, would be their only economic alternative: illegal drugs.A Future for Caribbean Bananas.521520"no other economic activity in the Eastern Caribbean has similar multiplier-effects on employment levels".519: My Lords. I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Newby, on raising this matter today. I very much hoped that he would go into some of the complexities of the tariff system because that would spare me the need to try to understand it and explain it to your Lordships. He has done that admirably, so my comments on the details of tariff references will be a little limited."Money and greed have been elevated to the status of a religion and care and concern are now regarded as a vice. Our future is now on a life support system. However, I am confident that our resourcefulness and faith will see us through"."A plot with a few dozen marijuana plants on a smallholding will fetch up to 30 times more per kilo than a farmer's banana crop. It is reckoned that St Vincent can now count marijuana as its principal export crop. The cultivation is also … on the increase in Grenada and Dominica"."The significant achievements of the islands' governments in pursuing democracy and good governance would be severely threatened, as those in power struggled to cope with rising deprivation and social unrest. Low prices, together with the uncertainty over the future of the banana industry, have led to a loss of confidence among farmers. Some are already leaving the land, and unemployment is rising. There is a very real danger that farmers could resort to what, for many, would be their only economic alternative: illegal drugs.A Future for Caribbean Bananas.521520"no other economic activity in the Eastern Caribbean has similar multiplier-effects on employment levels".519Lord Faulkner of Worcester
518517516rose to ask Her Majesty's Government what action they plan to take to safeguard the interests of Caribbean banana growers.518517516Lord Newby
495494493: My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have spoken in this debate, most of whom have been entirely positive and expected the Bill to be passed. Of course my heart sank like a stone when the Minister said that he was not 100 per cent behind all the measures and did not see them moving forward with great speed. Perhaps I may pick up some of the points on which he said that he saw problems with the Bill.495494493Lord Redesdale
Lord Redesdale.472"A general barrier within the planning system is that not all local authorities treat planning for renewables in a uniform way".471"protect and advance the interests of consumers by promoting competition where possible, and through regulation only where necessary".Reward Mechanisms for Micro-Generation470System Integration of Additional Micro-Generation: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.Lord Redesdale.472"A general barrier within the planning system is that not all local authorities treat planning for renewables in a uniform way".471"protect and advance the interests of consumers by promoting competition where possible, and through regulation only where necessary".Reward Mechanisms for Micro-Generation470System Integration of Additional Micro-GenerationLord Redesdale
509508Official Report"Under the Statute of Westminster 1931, before any alteration in the law touching the succession to the Throne can take effect the assent of all those countries of which Her Majesty is Queen is required. The United Kingdom cannot act unilaterally. That is another good reason for introducing a government measure. It would seem very odd to the legislatures of the 15 Realms to be invited to consider assenting to legislation instigated by an individual Member of your Lordships' House". —[Official Report:That is my view, my Lords. If I were the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, I would be rather less worried about sibling jealousies in a future Buckingham Palace and rather more concerned about fraternal relationships in Downing Street.509508Official Report"Under the Statute of Westminster 1931, before any alteration in the law touching the succession to the Throne can take effect the assent of all those countries of which Her Majesty is Queen is required. The United Kingdom cannot act unilaterally. That is another good reason for introducing a government measure. It would seem very odd to the legislatures of the 15 Realms to be invited to consider assenting to legislation instigated by an individual Member of your Lordships' House". —[Official ReportLord Strathclyde
"the only issue on which a decision has been taken is that which is … equality of treatment for men and women in relation to the succession to the Throne"?"We do not think that, whatever its merits, a Private Peer's Bill is an appropriate vehicle for so important a change as the one we have been debating. A major constitutional measure of this sort ought properly to be the subject of a government Bill".507:My Lords, it is a great pleasure to follow on in the debate, so ably introduced by the noble Lord, Lord Dubs. He follows in the footsteps of the noble Lord, Lord Archer of Weston-Super-Mare. I am sure that both noble Lords take great pride in that fact."the only issue on which a decision has been taken is that which is … equality of treatment for men and women in relation to the succession to the Throne"?"We do not think that, whatever its merits, a Private Peer's Bill is an appropriate vehicle for so important a change as the one we have been debating. A major constitutional measure of this sort ought properly to be the subject of a government Bill".507Lord Strathclyde
"Saudi Arabia's oil industry is no longer seen as being impenetrable to terrorist attacks; tensions in the Persian Gulf could swell over Iran's nuclear program; Nigerian factions may erupt in violence; and the fighting in Iraq goes on"."Now that worldwide production is running at full speed, there is no cushion left in the system to absorb a potential blow to producers like Iraq, Venezuela, Iran, Russia or Nigeria".Daily TelegraphNew York Times483: My Lords, I support the Bill, as does my party, the Green Party. I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Redesdale, on introducing it. I shall turn away from climate change, which is what most people talk about, to the point made by noble Lord, Lord Berkeley, about energy security."Saudi Arabia's oil industry is no longer seen as being impenetrable to terrorist attacks; tensions in the Persian Gulf could swell over Iran's nuclear program; Nigerian factions may erupt in violence; and the fighting in Iraq goes on"."Now that worldwide production is running at full speed, there is no cushion left in the system to absorb a potential blow to producers like Iraq, Venezuela, Iran, Russia or Nigeria".Daily TelegraphNew York Times483Lord Beaumont of Whitley
480479Financial Times478: My Lords, I rise to support my noble friend in his endeavours with this Private Member's Bill. He has put the case very fully and eloquently, and he referred to an interest that I must declare. I am president of the Micropower Council, a lobby group of interested and like-minded people who see the value of microgeneration in supporting what I think we all want to see, a sustainable environment.480479Financial Times478Baroness Maddock
: My Lords, I am very grateful to the Minister for giving way. I cannot accept that we cannot devolve these matters to Northern Ireland. When the Home Energy Conservation Act came through, we managed to do so through the Northern Ireland Housing Executive. It is possible and we have done it with many other Bills.Baroness Maddock
502:My Lords, I should like to focus on gender. I am delighted to be able to make a very short contribution to the debate, and I start by congratulating my noble friend on bringing forward the Bill. I too believe that it is breathtakingly modest but symbolically important, as is this discussion.502Baroness Morgan of Drefelin
: My Lords, my understanding was that the Bill supported another way, but the noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Chesterton, may very well be right. The noble Baroness who comes from Woking had already left the Chamber before I was able to check that with her, but never mind.Baroness Miller of Hendon
: My Lords, this is a very short Bill which has four main components, most of which deal with encouraging microgeneration, either by removing barriers or by adding incentives. The noble Lord, Lord Redesdale, in promoting the Bill, has explained those methods very clearly.Baroness Miller of Hendon
524"There is an ongoing debate between free trade and fair trade. I believe in making free trade fairer, and fair trade freer".:My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Newby, for introducing the debate. With the reports of mounting pressure on the EU to postpone the revision of its banana import regime, discussing this matter is timely and welcome. The noble Lord fully explained the background to this complicated problem. Some people have said that, without a solution, we could face another round of the banana war.524"There is an ongoing debate between free trade and fair trade. I believe in making free trade fairer, and fair trade freer".Baroness Miller of Hendon
522: My Lords, I congratulate my noble friend on securing the debate on this urgent issue. The number of speakers in the debate should not be taken as an indication of the interest in the issue. A number of noble Lords have said to me that they would have spoken in the debate but for the fact that it was scheduled for a Friday afternoon and they were unable to do so. They want my noble friend Lord Newby to know that they have great sympathy with the points they believed he would put forward.522Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
485484: My Lords, we warmly congratulate our noble friend Lord Redesdale on introducing this necessary Bill. It is regrettable that it is necessary to introduce it so soon after the Government put their own Energy Bill through both Houses. That could have incorporated some of these measures, had they chosen to do so.Indeed, some of these measures were amendments that the Government resisted during the passage of that Bill.485484Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
:: My Lords, we are committed to ensuring quality services that strengthen support to children in temporary accommodation. The children's national service framework recognises those children as being in special circumstances and the Children Act 2004 requires housing authorities and social services to focus on such children. Also, the increasing number of children's centres will enhance services to families who have typically been difficult to reach, and therefore to support.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
:: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for that helpful reply. Did he notice the statistics produced by the Deputy Prime Minister, which show that the number of homeless families, or families in accommodation for the homeless, is now at a record level of just above 100,000? Bearing in mind that only families with children qualify for that accommodation, it is likely that the number of children involved may be 250,000 to 300,000—the size of the total population of a city. The Minister will know that Victoria Climbié was one such child. What action are the Government taking to secure the well-being of those children and to minimise disruption to their young lives?Lord Laming
:: My Lords, we are doing a lot and have done a lot. First, we have virtually eradicated the use of bed and breakfast accommodation, except for very short periods; we have reduced that by 99 per cent. Secondly, we have committed to increase the supply of affordable homes by about 10,000 a year during the next three to four years, which will help us to reach our target of reducing by half the number of families in temporary accommodation. I should point out that almost 90 per cent of families with children in temporary accommodation are in self-contained accommodation, with all amenities. The issue is more about its temporary nature than its quality.Lord Filkin
532:: My Lords, does the problem still exist where a council has responsibility for a child but the child then has to be housed in a different area? There was always great difficulty with the social worker or education worker moving between the boroughs. Does that situation still exist,
532Baroness Gardner of Parkes
:: My Lords, the noble Baroness is right on both points. We are quite clear that it is in the interests of the family and the child to be rehoused, wherever possible, in their home borough, for all sorts of practical reasons: that is where the responsibility lies; and that is more likely to keep the child at the same school, if the child is of school age. On the second point, the noble Baroness is also right: one reason for trying to reduce the amount of temporary accommodation is that we can thereby reduce the likelihood that the child will have to change schools, which obviously disturbs the child's education. That is why we are committed to increasing the pressure on local authorities to house locally and increasing the supply of housing to reduce the use of temporary accommodation.Lord Filkin
:: My Lords, is the Minister aware that, according to the Treasury's child poverty review of last July, only 29 per cent of children whose households are in temporary accommodation attend school regularly? As the noble Lord, Lord Laming, implied, that may affect about 150,000 children. What proposals do the Government have to ensure that those children do not suffer as a result of being in temporary accommodation?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
:: My Lords, the central aim is that as soon as a housing authority has accepted responsibility for a family, it is desirable that that family is housed, and housed permanently. That avoids the problem of moving from one form of temporary accommodation to another and then to a settled tenancy. I repeat that that is why we are committed to massive investment in increased social housing during the Spending Review 2004 period, increasing the number of homes by about 10,000 a year, and why we believe that eradicating the use of temporary accommodation by local authorities is the correct approach. In large part, local authorities strongly support that.Lord Filkin
:: My Lords, to what extent, if at all, is priority given to families where the homelessness is due to domestic violence, where the need is clearly acute? If it is, what is the average time taken to rehouse those families into good quality, self-contained accommodation?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
533:: My Lords, the noble Baroness is absolutely right: domestic violence cases are among the most serious and difficult situations in which a housing authority has to provide accommodation. In some cases, the accommodation may be only temporary, because the mother may decide that she
533Lord Filkin
:: My Lords, do the Government statistics for domestic violence include, in particular, children recognised as being at risk of non-accidental injury—children of the Climbié definition? If so, what special means of protection are extended to those families and those children, especially when they move, as my noble friend said, from one authority to another?Lord Elton
:: My Lords, we are moving off the Question slightly; nevertheless I shall seek to respond. First, it is good practice in many authorities, whenever, for example, the police or others come across a case of domestic violence, to think about what might be happening to the child. Therefore, many police authorities notify social services that they have been called to such a situation. Secondly, recognition that the mother is the victim of violence should put social services on strong alert to the risk that the child might be vulnerable. That ought to be one of the risk factors that social services take into account when making a statutory assessment of need for that child.Lord Filkin
:: My Lords, since the noble Lord believes that the best way to deal with homeless families is to put them into social rented accommodation, does he think it wise for the Government to consider extending the right to buy to housing association accommodation?Lord Stoddart of Swindon
:: My Lords, I have not yet had the pleasure of reading the specific speech, reported in the Sunday newspapers, to which the noble Lord refers. There are two essential issues. First, looking at the most cost-effective way of helping families, an increase in rented housing is vital; that is why we have committed to it so strongly. The other point advanced in the speech is that there is a vast difference in the transfers of wealth between different parts of society depending on whether that family owns a home. It was a sensible policy concern about the increasing differential wealth in society between those who own homes and those who do not. That issue was rightly raised as a matter of public concern and public policy.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the Government support continued growth in the use of the railway network by making the best use of existing capacity through measures such as route utilisation strategies and ensuring that the railway operates as efficiently as possible.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for the encouraging nature of his reply. A study was undertaken by W S Atkins of the potential for a new high-speed line from London to the north of England. That was completed at the end of 2003. It showed a high cost benefit ratio and identified considerable relief for airlines, roads and moving freight. Do the Government have plans to develop the W S Atkins scheme further? Obviously, it is not ready to be implemented, but one would hope that it, at least, is part of the Government's forward thinking.Lord Bradshaw
: My Lords, the noble Lord has lighted on one of the more ambitious possible innovations in railway development. He will recognise that the creation of a specially dedicated track for high-speed trains running north to south is somewhat in the longer term. However, as he said, a study was completed in 2003, and I can assure the House that it is under active consideration. The noble Lord will recognise that substantial resources would need to be committed to make the proposal realistic.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware of how much support there was for the initiative taken by the SRA last year to develop community railways, the less glamorous rural services? Can he give an assurance that, when the responsibilities of the SRA transfer to the department, the initiative will be continued and the future of those lines will not be put at risk?Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: My Lords, we are eager to continue the consultation process which the SRA developed with regard to community railways because, by definition, it requires the widest-possible participation from a local area or region in the development of railway services. However, I can assure my noble friend that the new arrangements, which of course will be discussed when the Railways Bill comes before this House in the fairly near future, will take account of this necessity.Lord Davies of Oldham
537: My Lords, would it help the Government to know that having driven 70 miles each
537Lord Renton
: My Lords, I am grateful for that assurance of how successfully we are improving the railway service, and no one should the railways seek to serve better than the noble Lord. I emphasise that, when every noble Lord in the House can testify to the same extent about the success of our suburban and city network services, I will be a happy representative of the Government.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, will the Minister accept that I perhaps cannot be as helpful as the previous speaker on this matter? There is at least one clause in the Railways Bill, which is in another place, that would make it easier for the Government to contract rather than expand the railways. Could he offer us any comfort as far as that clause is concerned?Lord Snape
: My Lords, my noble friend will of course get his opportunity to make a contribution to the debate on the Railways Bill. He will recognise that all legislation exists to enable the Government to foresee any potential development. Therefore, in certain areas, it may be the case that some contraction takes place, but, overall, we are looking forward to continuing what has been an extraordinary record in recent years of expanding the usage of the railways. The railways are being used more intensively than at any time since 1947. Therefore, I assure my noble friend that the Bill that is before the other place is constructed to enable us to pursue an active expansion of the railway rather than negative factors.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, does the noble Lord accept that he has just given a glowing endorsement of railway privatisation and of the train operating companies, as passenger numbers have increased so much in recent years? Does he further accept that the next Statement that the Secretary of State will make will be the sixth major railway review in seven years? So we wait with barely concealed excitement for yet another new announcement on the railways. Will the Minister explain how the Government expect passenger numbers to grow in the future when they are encouraging the SRA to cut the number of services?Viscount Astor
538: My Lords, the noble Viscount managed to conceal his excitement fairly well, but I emphasise that the next Statement will be
538Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, an additional high-speed line to the north, and possibly extended to Scotland, would draw passengers from the existing rail, air and road networks, thereby reducing overcrowding and increasing safety. Is not rail substitution a central aim of the Government?The Earl of Mar and Kellie
: My Lords, the noble Earl is undoubtedly right about the prospects of a high-speed line doing that, but I want to emphasise to the House the improvements already made to services and the increased reliability of the railway. That is having an effect on airline traffic. The noble Earl will recognise in particular the development of the high-speed line to the Channel Tunnel, which is giving it a competitive edge. It is also the case that the improvements made to the North West Main Line have resulted in faster journey times. That, too, poses a real challenge to the airlines, with the result that we have healthy competition between both modes of travel.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the Government recognise concerns within the haulage industry about its competitiveness and are committed to ensuring that all lorries using UK roads pay their fair share.Lord Davies of Oldham
539: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Irrespective of the lorry road-user charging scheme, surely it must be desirable for all HGV
539Earl Attlee
: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Earl on an interesting and innovative proposal. Let me say first that he will recognise that we have been involved in consultation with the industry over many years, which has formed the basis of the proposals we are now putting forward. However, I shall take steps to ensure that his constructive suggestion is put before Customs and Excise, which is the section of the Treasury concerned with these issues.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, can the Minister confirm that the proposed lorry road-user charging scheme will be implemented by a satellite tracking system? If so, how will it work? Has it been tested? Further, is such a system being used in any other EU country?Viscount Astor
: My Lords, a range of technologies is available. Satellite tracking is being used by the Germans to administer their lorry road user charge, although only lorries using the autobahn network are charged. In Britain we shall be charging for all road use in the country. At present we have not committed ourselves to this particular technology. It is currently undergoing tests and is being discussed. However, I can assure the noble Viscount that we intend to introduce a technology that is safe and secure and which charges all lorries—including all foreign lorries—for their use of our road system.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, would not the easiest way to ensure that all lorries leave the country with an almost full tank of fuel be to reduce fuel excise duty to the levels of those on the Continent?Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, that would still not impose any extra cost on foreign lorry drivers for their use of British roads. We are concerned about this because lorries incur high costs in terms of road maintenance and development and it is only right that the foreign road user should meet the full and proper costs involved. The noble Lord's suggestion is, therefore, not quite as constructive as that of the noble Earl, Lord Attlee, which was directed towards the recoupment of some of those costs.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, can my noble friend confirm that the Government's intention is still to carry as many goods as possible by rail rather than road and that they seek to achieve a modal switch in that way? Therefore, a proposal along the lines of that put forward by the noble Earl, Lord Attlee, is worth looking at if it would reduce some of the cross-subsidies that lorry drivers, in particular foreign lorry drivers, presently enjoy.Lord Faulkner of Worcester
540: My Lords, that is exactly why I gave what I hope was a helpful initial response to the noble Earl, Lord Attlee. We are concerned to
540Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, perhaps I may draw the Minister's attention to one other point. Lorries fitted with very large or double fuel tanks constitute a huge safety risk both at sea and on the roads. Is the Minister aware that when they spill their large loads of diesel oil in road collisions, that is almost always very injurious to motorcyclists? Can he please assure the House that the scheme for lorry road-user charging will be prosecuted very quickly? There are many reasons why it is necessary.Lord Bradshaw
: My Lords, the technical implications of the scheme and the technology required to implement it will take a bit of time to take effect. Therefore, it will be a little while before the scheme is fully in place. However, one reason for introducing the scheme is to counteract the kind of circumstance described by the noble Lord. It is certainly the case that some lorries are arriving in this country with excessively large fuel tanks attached— much larger than those normally fitted on their British counterparts—in order to benefit by purchasing fuel only when abroad and are not buying it in this country at all. That abuse needs to be tackled.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware that most lorries based in Northern Ireland fill up in the Republic? In looking at how he might move forward on the proposal made by the noble Earl, Lord Attlee, will he bear in mind that the situation in Northern Ireland is particularly different? The Treasury is losing quite a lot of money because of it.Lord Dubs
: My Lords, that point does need to be borne in mind when considering the suggestion of the noble Earl, Lord Attlee. But the beauty of the scheme to which we are committed thus far and on which we have engaged in the most intensive consultation is that once a lorry uses British roads— that is, those of Britain and Northern Ireland—it would be subject to the user charge.Lord Davies of Oldham
612611: My Lords, it is a huge privilege to speak in a debate such as we have had today. I noted that, once again, and probably quite rightly, I would be tail-end Charlie. But, thank goodness, after six noble and gallant Lords have spoken, most of the points that I would wish to make have been covered, far more eloquently and professionally than I could. I declare a minor interest as secretary of the House of Lords Defence Group, which causes some concern in various areas. Many of us owe a great debt of gratitude to the Minister for all the help that he gives Members of your Lordships' House who may have had desultory experience in the Armed Forces. He keeps many of us up to date with what goes on. I shall restrict my brief remarks to more personal aspects of the British Army.612611Lord Lyell
594IndependentDaily Telegraph593Official Report"size is not of the greatest importance here".—[Official Report"we are not committed to an absolute size",Official Report"some excellent questions about the two aircraft carriers"— [Official Report: My Lords, I, too, thank the Minister for this very important opportunity to discuss defence matters. First, however, I should like to add something about my noble friend Lord Burnham. My first job on the Front Bench eight years ago was as his Whip. I was absolutely terrified. He was very kind and taught me well. Like everyone else, I shall sorely miss him.594IndependentDaily Telegraph593Official Report"size is not of the greatest importance here".—[Official Report"we are not committed to an absolute size",Official Report"some excellent questions about the two aircraft carriers"— [Official ReportLord Luke
: My Lords, before my noble friend Lord Bach introduces the defence debate, I can give some advice on timing. As we all know, we have a 10 o'clock target for rising this evening. There is an Unstarred Question tabled for after the defence debate. If all 25 Back-Bench contributions could be kept to around 10 minutes apiece, we should comfortably meet the target rising time.Lord Grocott
565564: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his statement. I believe that this debate is being held at a critical time for the Armed Forces, which are faced by many challenges. The international scene is as dangerous and as volatile as it has been for many years. There is uncertainty, and predicting where our forces will next be committed to operations has become increasingly difficult. Recently, we have all too often failed to get predictions right. Programming priorities are far from easy to decide upon and how to maintain the quality of our small Armed Forces and their readiness and agility is as great a problem as it has probably ever been.565564Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank
: My Lords, perhaps I may come back on that. It is not quite what I said. I said that the Army was getting dangerously small. I agree that at the moment the balance is wrong. We probably have more in the front line which should be supported by extra people in the support areas that the Minister has just outlined. But that is not my point. It is that overall the Army is too small and robbing the front line to fill up the back is not what we should be doing.Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank
Grande Armée"Because Napoleon had not seen the British infantry in action since Toulon, he entirely failed to appreciate their superiority to many of the Continental foes the Grande Armée590"The Minister has said that he hoped that Northern Ireland would remain stable. It is quite a dangerous assumption. The removal of one or more battalions from the Province at the moment would be at best premature".Hansard: My Lords, I must yet again declare an interest as a trustee of the King's Own Scottish Borderers, my old regiment, which is due to be amalgamated with the Royal Scots in the recent unpopular decision, taken since I spoke in the debate on 24 November. There is no doubt that the Government's expected announcement in December, in the interests of reorganisation and modernisation, has caused considerable upset in many quarters.Grande Armée"Because Napoleon had not seen the British infantry in action since Toulon, he entirely failed to appreciate their superiority to many of the Continental foes the Grande Armée590"The Minister has said that he hoped that Northern Ireland would remain stable. It is quite a dangerous assumption. The removal of one or more battalions from the Province at the moment would be at best premature".HansardLord Sanderson of Bowden
633"However, prosecutors should be permitted to hold witness interviews at any stage of the proceedings—particularly if further evidence or material, casting doubt on the reliability of a witness's evidence comes to light at a later stage in the proceedings or if further witnesses come to light after a decision to prosecute has been reached".632Pre-trial Witness Interviews by Prosecutors: My Lords, it is my great good fortune to follow the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, and the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew of Twysden. The noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, is of course an extremely experienced and very distinguished criminal practitioner. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew of Twysden, was an outstanding Attorney-General for four years. I am lucky to have heard their speeches, and am in a position to say that I wholly agree with everything that both the noble Lord and the noble and learned Lord said. My good fortune is enhanced by the consequence that I have very little left to say.633"However, prosecutors should be permitted to hold witness interviews at any stage of the proceedings—particularly if further evidence or material, casting doubt on the reliability of a witness's evidence comes to light at a later stage in the proceedings or if further witnesses come to light after a decision to prosecute has been reached".632Pre-trial Witness Interviews by ProsecutorsLord Kingsland
576575"Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few".: My Lords, the United Kingdom has the longest continuous history of military aviation of any nation. The Royal Engineers first experimented with balloons in 1878 at Woolwich Arsenal on the outskirts of London. In 1909, the Royal Navy started its flying activities, and, in April 1918, the merger of the Army's Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service formed the Royal Air Force, the world's first autonomous air force. The new service was seen as an example to follow by many, not least those in the United States Army Air Corps and later in post-Great War Germany.576575"Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few".Lord Grantchester
558ad nauseam557556: My Lords, I associate myself with the well merited tribute to Lord Burnham.558ad nauseam557556Lord Craig of Radley
: My Lords, surely the noble Lord, Lord Ezra, is absolutely right in pursuing the question of combined heat and power, since the overall thermal efficiency of power stations is virtually doubled by employing CHP. Will the Government give the matter considerably more priority, especially given that Scotland is, apparently, to be defaced by thousands of wind turbines? The Lake District is to be similarly destroyed. I hope that the Government can get their priorities right.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
"the courage to keep on the front foot and make adjustments to the current Order of Battle to fight the next war and not the last""mainly if not exclusively to single battalion infantry regiments".esprit de corps"The list of 'non-regimental' characteristics includes: fighting spirit, unit cohesion, and retention. It is clear from a study of our contemporary and historical experience that these features, essential to success in battle and the long-term health of our Army, depend chiefly on good leadership. Good officers and NCOs will create an effective operational unit … Whatever kind of organizational or regimental model there may be, this essential truth will hold good"."characteristics that are essential to the delivery of fighting power"."What is Best in the Regimental System?".599"the current existence of single battalion regiments has run its course"."the Arms Plot rendered some 7 to 8 battalions unavailable … we did not have, therefore, 40 battalions in the effective Order of Battle, but rather some 32. In the future, the 36 battalions will all be available"."The ending of the current Arms Plot system is a logical change that is broadly supported by the infantry, both serving and retired"."Units are currently not established for war-fighting without considerable augmentation"."operational need for a more agile, deployable and flexible force",598: My Lords, I shall speak on one issue only—the future Army structure. I welcome the way in which the decision has come about and its outcome."the courage to keep on the front foot and make adjustments to the current Order of Battle to fight the next war and not the last""mainly if not exclusively to single battalion infantry regiments".esprit de corps"The list of 'non-regimental' characteristics includes: fighting spirit, unit cohesion, and retention. It is clear from a study of our contemporary and historical experience that these features, essential to success in battle and the long-term health of our Army, depend chiefly on good leadership. Good officers and NCOs will create an effective operational unit … Whatever kind of organizational or regimental model there may be, this essential truth will hold good"."characteristics that are essential to the delivery of fighting power"."What is Best in the Regimental System?".599"the current existence of single battalion regiments has run its course"."the Arms Plot rendered some 7 to 8 battalions unavailable … we did not have, therefore, 40 battalions in the effective Order of Battle, but rather some 32. In the future, the 36 battalions will all be available"."The ending of the current Arms Plot system is a logical change that is broadly supported by the infantry, both serving and retired"."Units are currently not established for war-fighting without considerable augmentation"."operational need for a more agile, deployable and flexible force",598Lord Tunnicliffe
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for that reply. Does he agree that generally the installation of new CHP plant has stagnated over the past three years or so, with one or two exceptions, and that has happened even though the Government have recognised CHP as one of the most cost-effective options for carbon abatement? Furthermore, does he accept that, even though we are running behind target, the saving in carbon emissions by CHP already installed is running at around 4,000 tonnes of carbon per annum, and that could be doubled if the Government's target of 10 megawatts could be achieved by 2010? Does that not call for a new initiative such as a CHP commitment similar to the existing renewables commitment, which I pressed for as far back as five years ago, when we were debating the Utilities Act 2000?Lord Ezra
534:: My Lords, I beg leave to ask the Question standing in my name on the Order Paper. In so doing, I declare an interest as patron of the Micropower Council.534Lord Ezra
: My Lords, perhaps the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General will recall that I said that I have no objection to all the necessary information being given to the victim or his family. It is the element of incorporation in the decision-making process, to which his guidelines refer, that causes me disquiet.Lord Thomas of Gresford
629Pre-trial witness interviews by prosecutors report"must exercise the utmost care and caution to extract, and not to inject, information, and by all means to resist the temptation to influence or bias the testimony of a witness"."The first is objectivity, that is to say, the duty to deal dispassionately with the facts as they are, uncoloured by subjective emotions or prejudices. The second is independence from other interests that may have a bearing on the prosecution, including the police and the defence. The third, related to the first, is lack of animus—either negative or positive—towards the suspect or accused. The Crown Attorney is expected to act in an even-handed way".628"is impossible to retain the requisite level of objectivity by conducting lengthy (and no doubt emotional) pre-charge interviews with the complainants. Human nature just will not allow it. By doing so you hear first only one side of the story. How can you then objectively review the process which includes a consideration of the rights of the applicant?"."at any stage of the proceedings"."The prosecution should whenever practicable, speak with the victim or the victim's family, so that the position can be explained and their views and interests can be taken into account as part of the decision making process. The victim or victim's family should then be kept informed and decisions explained once they are made at court".627"to lay before a jury what the Crown considers to be credible evidence relevant to what is alleged to be a crime. Counsel have a duty to see that all available legal proof of the facts is presented: it should be done firmly and pressed to its legitimate strength but it also must be done fairly".BucherWS 104-05: rose to ask Her Majesty's Government, further to the Written Statement by the Attorney-General on 20 December 2004 (629Pre-trial witness interviews by prosecutors report"must exercise the utmost care and caution to extract, and not to inject, information, and by all means to resist the temptation to influence or bias the testimony of a witness"."The first is objectivity, that is to say, the duty to deal dispassionately with the facts as they are, uncoloured by subjective emotions or prejudices. The second is independence from other interests that may have a bearing on the prosecution, including the police and the defence. The third, related to the first, is lack of animus—either negative or positive—towards the suspect or accused. The Crown Attorney is expected to act in an even-handed way".628"is impossible to retain the requisite level of objectivity by conducting lengthy (and no doubt emotional) pre-charge interviews with the complainants. Human nature just will not allow it. By doing so you hear first only one side of the story. How can you then objectively review the process which includes a consideration of the rights of the applicant?"."at any stage of the proceedings"."The prosecution should whenever practicable, speak with the victim or the victim's family, so that the position can be explained and their views and interests can be taken into account as part of the decision making process. The victim or victim's family should then be kept informed and decisions explained once they are made at court".627"to lay before a jury what the Crown considers to be credible evidence relevant to what is alleged to be a crime. Counsel have a duty to see that all available legal proof of the facts is presented: it should be done firmly and pressed to its legitimate strength but it also must be done fairly".BucherWS 104-05Lord Thomas of Gresford
esprit de corps573572: My Lords, it is always a pleasure to follow the noble Baroness, Lady Park of Monmouth, who invariably hits many nails on the head. There have been many developments in defence recently, including the sadly very much ongoing war in Iraq, now virtually a civil war, as some had warned that it might become, and the major restructuring of the infantry in the Army. Much has already been said about these and related matters, usually to no avail, and there is only limited time in this timely debate to say more.esprit de corps573572Lord Bramall
: My Lords, can the noble Lord tell us whether the local communities welcome or do not welcome the schemes?Lord Mackie of Benshie
563: My Lords, I shall be brief. I was particularly interested to hear the intervention of the noble Lord, Lord Crickhowell, in describing the Welsh situation because I want to reflect on the reorganisation of the Scottish infantry, or at least those regimental battalions which will form the new Royal Regiment of Scotland.563The Earl of Mar and Kellie
"It will take 10 to 15 years at least before troops can be withdrawn. The Iraqis just cannot cope with the security situation and won't be able to for years. It's another Cyprus".Daily Telegraphesprit de corps550"he spends his whole life in plastering together the true and the false and from there manufacturing the plausible".549Major Projects Report 2005Major Projects Report 2004"data to support notional Smart Acquisition savings proved to be unreliable"548"Treasury officials were involved fully in the exercise".Releasing resources to the front line547: My Lords, we on these Benches warmly appreciate, as I know Hugh Burnham's family will, the kind words with which the Minister started his speech. Hugh Burnham had planned to be here today. He was an outspoken advocate of the needs of the Armed Forces and took particular pride in the fact that his father had been the first TA officer to be appointed to the rank of Major General. He retained affectionate links with his own regiment, the Scots Guards, and he developed, through his sailing and his work before he came here as director of King George's Fund for Sailors, a deep and well informed support for the Royal Navy. The House is the poorer for the loss of his congenial and forthright personality. I shall miss him."It will take 10 to 15 years at least before troops can be withdrawn. The Iraqis just cannot cope with the security situation and won't be able to for years. It's another Cyprus".Daily Telegraphesprit de corps550"he spends his whole life in plastering together the true and the false and from there manufacturing the plausible".549Major Projects Report 2005Major Projects Report 2004"data to support notional Smart Acquisition savings proved to be unreliable"548"Treasury officials were involved fully in the exercise".Releasing resources to the front line547Lord Astor of Hever
WA 115Official Report"There is a requirement for an effective and deployable medium-weight capability able to project power rapidly worldwide. Complementing our existing light and heavy forces, the Future Rapid Effects System (FRES) is planned to be the central pillar of the ground element of this capable, coherent and highly deployable medium-weight capability".—[WA 115Official Report"What military requirement the Future Rapid Effects System (FRES) is planned to meet".607606: My Lords, I remind the House of my peripheral interest.WA 115Official Report"There is a requirement for an effective and deployable medium-weight capability able to project power rapidly worldwide. Complementing our existing light and heavy forces, the Future Rapid Effects System (FRES) is planned to be the central pillar of the ground element of this capable, coherent and highly deployable medium-weight capability".—[WA 115Official Report"What military requirement the Future Rapid Effects System (FRES) is planned to meet".607606Earl Attlee
605604: My Lords, noble Lords have mentioned their admiration for the achievements of the Armed Forces and that they are a force for good. Naturally, I concur with that. Looking a little deeper at the effect and the impact that the Armed Forces have achieved throughout various parts of the world, a quick look at Sierra Leone gives a tremendous picture of achievement and shows how well the Armed Forces can cope with rejuvenating a country and rehabilitating it in just about every direction. If something like that, but on a larger scale, had been thought of for Iraq, we may not be where we are today. Her Majesty's Armed Forces are very good at such operations.605604Viscount Slim
: My Lords, the plans for wind farms and, indeed, CHP installations go through the normal planning process. Most of them have succeeded in that process, albeit slightly less quickly than might have been hoped. The views of the local community are taken fully into account.Lord Whitty
535: My Lords, the situation is not quite as bad as the noble Lord suggests. Largely because of one major new plant coming on line quite recently, we are
535Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the noble Countess is correct to say that there is misguided opposition to some of the proposals for incinerators using both CHP and other advanced technologies. The emissions from such incinerators are very low risk, in the context of the cutting edge of technology. From the point of view of waste disposal and carbon saving, it would be helpful if there could be more such installations.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I certainly agree with the noble Lord's penultimate point that CHP already provides a significant carbon saving and that that would make a very significant contribution to achieving the target. The noble Lord's first point is also right: progress in the underlying rate of take-up of CHP over the past three years has been disappointing, with a few important exceptions, due largely to the relative price of gas and electricity moving in the wrong direction.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I agreed with the first part of what my noble ex-friend said: we should give priority to it. We are giving priority to it. Whatever your views on wind farms, it is a complete diversion to say that, by encouraging renewables technology, we are undermining CHP. The two are not in conflict; both are contributions to a low-carbon economy. As noble Lords will know, I am strongly in favour of continuing to encourage wind farm technology.Lord Whitty
:: My Lords, we are currently over halfway to achieving our target of 10 gigawatts of good-quality CHP capacity by 2010. Last year's CHP strategy set out a framework to support the growth of CHP capacity and to enable the CHP industry to meet what is a very challenging target. It is indeed our belief that CHP technology has an important role to play in achieving our energy White Paper targets for a low-carbon economy.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
610Hansard609608: My Lords, this is a defence debate, and it includes the support structure as well as the military. I declare an interest as a previous chief executive of the Meteorological Office. Some of my staff used to take wind measurements when people
610Hansard609608Lord Hunt of Chesterton
603602601perestroika: My Lords, as your Lordships will know, this is a great year and we shall be drinking toasts to the immortal memory and to confusion to the enemy.603602601perestroikaLord Selsdon
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, I am afraid that his winding-up speech has failed to address the key issue that has been raised, particularly by my noble and gallant friends and others. He did not mention any maritime issue at all, which comes as no surprise, but the one matter upon which we have all been persistent, is that we are approaching a situation where our Armed Forces will not be in a fit position to fight. That is the most serious issue that confronts us today. I am disappointed that the Minister felt unable to address that point in his winding-up speech.Lord Boyce
reductio ad absurdum586585: My Lords, naturally, I too wish to join in the tribute to the men and women of our Armed Forces who consistently continue to perform magnificently on the world stage in whatever task they are invited to undertake, from tsunami disaster relief to high-intensity peacekeeping operations in Iraq.reductio ad absurdum586585Lord Boyce
562"I suspect that this will be a disappointing reply, but the endorsed titles are right for the Royal Welsh in the post Arms plot infantry. The Scottish Division were given an exceptional concession"."the boldness of the reorganisation agreed for the Scots might, in the short term, adversely affect recruiting more than would be the case in the new English and Welsh regiments","that the Scottish regiments were to keep their names because they had made a specific request to do so. The English and Welsh regiments, he said, had made no such request".Times"anyway the Scottish titles are only temporary".561Official Report"The identities of the antecedent regiments will be preserved in a variety of ways, not least by including them prominently in the battalion titles of the new regiment. So, for example, the 1st Battalion the Royal Highland Fusiliers will become the Royal Highland Fusiliers (2nd Battalion the Royal Regiment of Scotland)".—[Official Report560559: My Lords, in a debate that will be wide-ranging, and which will produce expert contributions from, among others, a veritable task force of former Chiefs of the Defence Staff and a former Secretary of State for Defence, I hope that I shall be forgiven for the fact that my contribution will be on a narrow, but important area of concern to the Welsh regiments. The issue has already been raised by my noble friend Lord Astor of Hever.562"I suspect that this will be a disappointing reply, but the endorsed titles are right for the Royal Welsh in the post Arms plot infantry. The Scottish Division were given an exceptional concession"."the boldness of the reorganisation agreed for the Scots might, in the short term, adversely affect recruiting more than would be the case in the new English and Welsh regiments","that the Scottish regiments were to keep their names because they had made a specific request to do so. The English and Welsh regiments, he said, had made no such request".Times"anyway the Scottish titles are only temporary".561Official Report"The identities of the antecedent regiments will be preserved in a variety of ways, not least by including them prominently in the battalion titles of the new regiment. So, for example, the 1st Battalion the Royal Highland Fusiliers will become the Royal Highland Fusiliers (2nd Battalion the Royal Regiment of Scotland)".—[Official Report560559Lord Crickhowell
: My Lords, I do not want to delay the proceedings. The noble Lord has added absolutely nothing to what I told the House was the position. The Welsh regiments went along with the reorganisation changes. I simply ask on this occasion that, rather than being given yet another inadequate answer, he take back the case that has been made, which I and those in a position to know agree will gravely damage recruiting in Wales, and reconsider it.Lord Crickhowell
592"Our security and prosperity depend increasingly on international action and negotiation","the successful management of international problems".591: My Lords, I should first like to join with other noble Lords in expressing my admiration for the role which our Armed Forces play in the defence and security of the United Kingdom and increasingly in peacekeeping activities worldwide. I was privileged to work closely with military colleagues throughout my career in the Diplomatic Service. But I should like to take this opportunity to remind your Lordships of the vital role which our diplomatic and intelligence services also play in the defence of the realm and in the avoidance of conflict—what the noble Lord, Lord Garden, referred to as a "joint approach to conflict prevention".592"Our security and prosperity depend increasingly on international action and negotiation","the successful management of international problems".591Lord Wright of Richmond
"The intention behind this is that evidence of previous misconduct that has a relevance to an issue in the case should be admitted to give courts and juries the fullest possible relevant information for them to determine guilt or innocence".638637636: My Lords, as I have said, I disagree with the noble Lord about that because I believe that
"The intention behind this is that evidence of previous misconduct that has a relevance to an issue in the case should be admitted to give courts and juries the fullest possible relevant information for them to determine guilt or innocence".638637636Lord Goldsmith
635"It is the duty of crown prosecutors to make sure that the right person is prosecuted for the right offence. In doing so, Crown Prosecutors must always act in the interests of justice and not solely for the purpose of obtaining a conviction"."Crown Prosecutors must be fair, independent and objective. They must not let any personal views about ethnic or national origin, disability, sex, religious beliefs, political views or the sexual orientation of the suspect, victim or witness influence their decisions. They must not be affected by improper or undue pressure from any source.634: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, on having secured this debate and on having secured it with such rapidity, but I am very happy to come to the Dispatch Box. I thank him and other noble Lords for the contribution that they have made to this debate.635"It is the duty of crown prosecutors to make sure that the right person is prosecuted for the right offence. In doing so, Crown Prosecutors must always act in the interests of justice and not solely for the purpose of obtaining a conviction"."Crown Prosecutors must be fair, independent and objective. They must not let any personal views about ethnic or national origin, disability, sex, religious beliefs, political views or the sexual orientation of the suspect, victim or witness influence their decisions. They must not be affected by improper or undue pressure from any source.634The Attorney-General (Lord Goldsmith)
568567566: My Lords, it is with some trepidation that I intervene in this debate. I am conscious that there is much senior Armed Forces talent on both sides of the House and on the Cross Benches. I know that a former distinguished Secretary of State of the early 1990s is to wind up for the main Opposition party. It ill behoves a humble—those who know me would perhaps say "not so humble"—corporal to intervene during your Lordships' deliberations. I do not envy my noble friend the Minister who has the task of explaining change in these circumstances. That is extremely difficult in this House, as it is elsewhere.568567566Lord Snape
582"We could be buying American rather than giving work to the shipyards in Britain".581: My Lords, it is a pleasure and honour to take part in today's debate with so many distinguished and experienced Members of your Lordships' House.582"We could be buying American rather than giving work to the shipyards in Britain".581Lord Truscott
Newsbrief580"conclude that The Smart Acquisition Initiatives promulgated by the Ministry of Defence in 1998 have not been properly implemented within the Defence Procurement Agency. The National Audit Office judged The Major Projects Review 2003 to be 'among the most disappointing in the history of the Report' because it showed an unabated stream of cost overruns and delays. Indeed, since Smart Acquisition was adopted the situation has got worse; the Major Project Review 1998 showed a £2.8 billion cost overrun on 25 major projects averaging £110 million each, where The Major Projects Review 2004 now shows a £5.2 billion cost overrun on 18 projects averaging nearly £300 million each. The two Select Committees based their conclusions about Smart Acquisition firmly on the evidence that poor performance in the Defence Procurement Agency was endemic, that some of the Smart Initiatives had hardly been implemented at all, and that the Smart Acquisition programme needed to be re-energised".NewsbriefMajor Projects Report 2004Major Projects Report 2003Newsbrief579: My Lords, much of this debate, which I very much welcome, has understandably been focused on the recently announced restructuring of our Armed Forces, together with their extensive deployments in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere.Newsbrief580"conclude that The Smart Acquisition Initiatives promulgated by the Ministry of Defence in 1998 have not been properly implemented within the Defence Procurement Agency. The National Audit Office judged The Major Projects Review 2003 to be 'among the most disappointing in the history of the Report' because it showed an unabated stream of cost overruns and delays. Indeed, since Smart Acquisition was adopted the situation has got worse; the Major Project Review 1998 showed a £2.8 billion cost overrun on 25 major projects averaging £110 million each, where The Major Projects Review 2004 now shows a £5.2 billion cost overrun on 18 projects averaging nearly £300 million each. The two Select Committees based their conclusions about Smart Acquisition firmly on the evidence that poor performance in the Defence Procurement Agency was endemic, that some of the Smart Initiatives had hardly been implemented at all, and that the Smart Acquisition programme needed to be re-energised".NewsbriefMajor Projects Report 2004Major Projects Report 2003Newsbrief579Lord Vincent of Coleshill
: My Lords, the Minister is correct to say that we are roughly halfway to the 2010 target, but that is only just above the 2000 target. So although we are halfway to 2010 in time, our output for combined heat and power has scarcely increased. What further steps do the Government have in mind to resuscitate that rather moribund situation?Lord Dixon-Smith
578577: My Lords, I wish to concentrate my brief remarks this evening on the Reserve Forces—the volunteer Reserve Forces as opposed to the Regular Reserves—which have not been used as effectively as they have been in decades past.578577Lord Freeman
615HansardDefending Democracy614Sunday Telegraph613: My Lords, I begin by echoing some of the words said about Lord Burnham. I had not heard the news before today, and I was deeply saddened. For those outside this place, Lord Burnham fulfilled the image of the quintessential Peer. He had the looks that people expect of a Peer, but, way above that, I must say, having been on the Front Bench with him on a number of occasions and in a number of situations over a decade, he was never anything but unerringly polite, friendly and helpful. He will be a great loss to all of us in the House.615HansardDefending Democracy614Sunday Telegraph613Lord Redesdale
588: My Lords, I thank the Minister for bringing this debate to your Lordships' House. My noble friend obviously felt, as many of your Lordships did during the debate on the Queen's Speech, that further time should be set aside for this subject. We welcome the speed with which this has happened. I know that my noble friend appreciates the quality of knowledge and experience in this House, and no doubt he values the advice given to him by your Lordships.588Lord Burlison
555554553552: My Lords, I thank the Minister for the opportunity this debate gives your Lordships to focus and reflect on the dedication and professionalism of our Armed Forces. From these Benches we would wish to pay tribute to the work being done by the services, detailed by the Minister in his speech, in response to that unprecedented destruction around the Indian Ocean following the Boxing Day tsunami, in addition, of course, to all the other commitments that he talked about.555554553552Lord Garden
620619618Hansard617"From my experience, I advise any of you who contemplate changing your profession to have nothing to do with organising the British army. For of all the difficult offices, of all the thankless duties which can devolve upon a human being, that of being an army organiser and reformer is the worst".Options for Change616: My Lords, I thank both the Minister and the noble Lord, Lord Redesdale, for their kind words about our colleague, Hugh Burnham.
620619618Hansard617"From my experience, I advise any of you who contemplate changing your profession to have nothing to do with organising the British army. For of all the difficult offices, of all the thankless duties which can devolve upon a human being, that of being an army organiser and reformer is the worst".Options for Change616Lord King of Bridgwater
623622Tom King, the Secretary of State for Defence, is facing growing pressure from senior Conservative Back-Benchers and military chiefs to reduce deep Army cuts, which they believe have been determined solely by financial targets, not military needs. Mr King, who outlined the cuts in the Defence White Paper yesterday, said they would create 'smaller but better Armed Forces' but after a meeting yesterday the Army Board was expected to ask him to think again about his plan to reduce the number of Army battalions from 55 to 36".621: My Lord, this has been an outstanding debate. It is the best that I have ever been present at on defence matters. I thank all noble Lords who have taken part. It will be listened to and read rather more widely than the noble Lord, Lord King, fears. I shall certainly do my part to make sure that it is distributed to the relevant parts of the Ministry of Defence, including Ministers, the Defence Procurement Agency and the Army Board. The debate will be taken note of—perhaps not immediately, perhaps not this week or next week, but in time many of the fine speeches that have been made will be considered very carefully. Again, I thank all noble Lords who have taken part.623622Tom King, the Secretary of State for Defence, is facing growing pressure from senior Conservative Back-Benchers and military chiefs to reduce deep Army cuts, which they believe have been determined solely by financial targets, not military needs. Mr King, who outlined the cuts in the Defence White Paper yesterday, said they would create 'smaller but better Armed Forces' but after a meeting yesterday the Army Board was expected to ask him to think again about his plan to reduce the number of Army battalions from 55 to 36".621Lord Bach
625: My Lords, I shall also take that back, as the noble Lord has requested, but I do not want him to hold out any great hope that there will be any change of mind in relation to this issue. I do not want him to have false hopes, but I will take the matter back.625Lord Bach
624: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and gallant Lord for what he said. We do not believe that by reducing the number of battalions we are going to make the Army effectively any smaller. It is difficult to get across the point that under the changed arms plot no longer will there be many battalions which are training and unable to go to the front line. Almost all battalions, under the changed arms plot, will be able to go to the front line. So instead of using about 29 out of the 40 battalions, we shall be able to use the full 36. That is the thinking behind the Army Board's decision to change the arms plot and reduce the number of battalions. I am sure that we shall come back to that.624Lord Bach
626: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and gallant Lord. Our view in the MoD is not quite that which he and other noble and gallant Lords have put forward in the debate. We believe that we have an effective fighting force and that we shall continue to do so, and that our policies will continue in that direction.626Lord Bach
546545544Future Capabilities543542: rose to move, That this House takes note of developments in defence.546545544Future Capabilities543542The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
597Times596Spectator595: My Lords, this is something of a maiden speech, in the sense that I have not before taken part in a defence debate. As an amateur soldier from another era, I know my limitations. In addition, I am flanked by a broadside of distinguished noble and gallant friends, whose combined firepower is terrible to behold.597Times596Spectator595Viscount Tenby
"have the habit of doing things in a risk environment that the commercial enterprises do not follow".571570569: My Lords, it is difficult to review Her Majesty's Government's defence policy in isolation from our foreign policy, especially because this Government use the Armed Forces as a valuable political asset. In 2002, the Government set up as part of joined-up government a Conflict Prevention Pool and, later, another for Africa, formed from the Ministry of Defence, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Department for International Development, to bring together peacekeeping and programmed budgets for the first time, with "scorecards" agreed by Her Majesty's Treasury. That might be thought to be a wise initiative, in keeping with the need for our forces to be able, as the Minister said in our last defence debate, to operate across the spectrum from war-fighting to enduring peace operations in conjunction with the FCO and DfID, as they are doing in Iraq."have the habit of doing things in a risk environment that the commercial enterprises do not follow".571570569Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, what progress is being made towards encouraging local authorities to put in incinerators with combined heat and power facilities? What measures are being taken to overcome public objections caused by emissions from chimneys?The Countess of Mar
584masse de manoeuvre"this was one of the greatest surprises I have had in my life"."I admit",Aucune"Aucuneou est la masse de manoeuvre?""ou est la masse de manoeuvre?""I was dumbfounded. What were we to think of the great French Army and its highest chiefs?".History of the Second World War583: My Lords, like my noble friend Lord Freeman, although from a position of much less authority, I wish to speak about reserves and their importance.584masse de manoeuvre"this was one of the greatest surprises I have had in my life"."I admit",Aucune"Aucuneou est la masse de manoeuvre?""ou est la masse de manoeuvre?""I was dumbfounded. What were we to think of the great French Army and its highest chiefs?".History of the Second World War583Lord Mayhew of Twysden
"there is no justification for adopting audio or visual recording.""in favour of audio or visual recordings have force… on balance the practical disadvantages of audio or visual recording outweigh the perceived advantages and therefore the practical consequences of recording all interviews are such as to militate against adopting such a course. There is also no basis upon which to conclude that the risks of prosecutors coaching witnesses or otherwise contaminating evidence are real as opposed to theoretical. On that basis""Undoubtedly, the question of provision of transcripts also arises".631"to the CPS … the legal aid fund … to the public purse at trial"."In practical terms, audio or visual recordings of witness interviews have the potential to increase costs in a number of ways".630: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Thomas, has done a service in giving us the opportunity to examine the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General's proposals in this regard. I agree with a great deal of what the noble Lord said. He is absolutely right to invite us to focus upon the fundamental importance of sustaining the impartiality of the prosecutor."there is no justification for adopting audio or visual recording.""in favour of audio or visual recordings have force… on balance the practical disadvantages of audio or visual recording outweigh the perceived advantages and therefore the practical consequences of recording all interviews are such as to militate against adopting such a course. There is also no basis upon which to conclude that the risks of prosecutors coaching witnesses or otherwise contaminating evidence are real as opposed to theoretical. On that basis""Undoubtedly, the question of provision of transcripts also arises".631"to the CPS … the legal aid fund … to the public purse at trial"."In practical terms, audio or visual recordings of witness interviews have the potential to increase costs in a number of ways".630Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: Before I call Amendment No. 135, I should tell the Committee that if it is agreed to, I cannot call Amendment No. 135A on grounds of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Carter)
: My Lords, why, on a point of interpretation, are the wards now being padlocked?Lord Campbell of Alloway
: My Lords, the Government are committed to supporting ethical trading wherever possible and through the Department for International Development they provide significant support to the Fairtrade Foundation's efforts in promoting the supply and marketing of Fairtrade products. Contracting authorities have to consider a range of factors—EU procurement rules, value for money for the taxpayer, the authority's objectives and the subject and nature of the particular contract. Guidance on fair trade and public procurement is available on the Office of Government Commerce website.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
645: My Lords, those principles are indeed reflected in the Government's
645Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, that is a balance which must be maintained. There is no restriction on the number of products, goods and services covered by Fairtrade purchasing arrangements. There is no restriction in the Office of Government Commerce guidance on these matters. Clearly the principles will be adopted wherever they are appropriate.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, it is exactly the right approach—people in local areas should put pressure on public authorities to follow the guidance on ethical trading. The Government are certainly appreciative and supportive of all the actions to which the noble Lord, Lord Judd, refers.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, if I can find the information, I shall write giving the number of hits—I think that that is the correct phrase—on the website. But the question goes a good deal wider than that. In fact, the question of the noble Lord, Lord Judd, is an answer to the further question of the noble Lord, Lord Barnett. People do care—and when people care they can make their views felt to private companies as well as to public authorities.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
646: My Lords, it will be clear from my original Answer that it would be very
646Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am sure that is a very constructive suggestion. Again, I do not know enough about the exporting patterns of the countries which were devastated by the tsunami. However, I shall pass back the suggestion of the right reverend Prelate.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am afraid the noble Baroness, Lady Chalker, is beyond me when she refers to "phsyto-sanitary". However, training forms a very substantial part of the DfID budget. Indeed, DfID was under quite unjustified attack for spending £697 million on consultants when in fact it was spending the money on training and research. I am sure that part of that research includes the matters to which the noble Baroness, Lady Chalker, refers.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, that is not a matter for the Government, but the very fact that the question has been asked in the presence of the Clerk of the Parliaments means that it has been drawn to the attention of the House authorities.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I do not think it is a denigration to say that it is a niche market. We applaud all fair trade organisations. In order to work, they have to set up organisations of small producers in specific countries for their products. That is not done everywhere. It can be done for bananas; it can be done for coffee and tea. I see that it is being done for wine from Chile—and very good wine it is, too. These are niche markets in comparison with the bulk of international trade, but they are none the worse for that.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, can the Minister say whether these standards of practice in purchasing are observed within the House itself? While it may not be the Government's responsibility to respond to this, will he undertake to draw the matter to the attention of the authorities of the House and ensure that it is?Lord Brooke of Alverthorpe
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill. The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
653: This has somewhat taken on the nature of a Second Reading debate, so I shall try not to respond in kind, since we are in Committee. I shall answer the direct questions and the amendment.653Lord Filkin
656655: If I had more wit, I would probably be able to answer in one or two words, but given that I have not, I shall do so at length.656655Lord Filkin
: We are not generally changing the definition of middle schools. We are including in this part of the Bill for school competitions middle schools that have pupils of 16 or above and are, therefore, effectively teaching pupils of secondary school age. That is why they are included.Lord Filkin
662en bloc: I am grateful to the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Portsmouth for speaking to his proposals 662en blocLord Filkin
665: This is a good and proper probing debate as part of the clause stand part process. As I have already explained, the aim of this part of the Bill is to extend the requirement for local authorities to invite promoters to come forward with proposals to establish new schools so that it applies wherever statutory proposals are needed to establish a new
665Lord Filkin
667666: That is correct. They would apply only if a school were to be closed and therefore if there were a need for a new school to replace it.667666Lord Filkin
668: The noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, is right. The purpose of the local authority being required—in the process that I described—to publish all the proposals after it has received them is clearly for the purpose he indicates. It is so that local people have the opportunity to look at them, read them if they wish to and engage with them.668Lord Filkin
: Yes, I am very happy to do so.Lord Filkin
670: I hope that I can be both brief and helpful. Our intention is to ensure that promoters and local education authorities have the opportunity to publish proposals to establish schools on an equal footing. That is the heart of the policy—that all parties should have the same opportunity to bring forward proposals when new schools are required.670Lord Filkin
: With the leave of the Committee, I shall speak relatively succinctly because we covered much of the heart of these probing amendments in the previous group. I repeat and re-emphasise that we think it is right and proper that there should be more choice for local people to comment on. and more choice for school organisation committees to make decisions on, when new schools are provided or are to be provided. The purpose is not some abstract theory but to see whether local people and school organisation committees have a better opportunity to make a judgment about which proposal gives them greatest confidence and will raise standards and produce good outcomes for children in that area, because that is what local people want.Lord Filkin
Hansard673"(8A) Where any proposals published under this section relate to a school which is proposed to be situated in an area other than that of the local education authority who published the notice under this section, the provisions of Schedule 10 shall have effect in relation to the proposals with such modifications as may be prescribed."Page 39, line 35, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 127:
Hansard673"(8A) Where any proposals published under this section relate to a school which is proposed to be situated in an area other than that of the local education authority who published the notice under this section, the provisions of Schedule 10 shall have effect in relation to the proposals with such modifications as may be prescribed."Page 39, line 35, at end insert—Lord Filkin
Page 41, line 14, leave out "pupils and to prepare pupils" and insert "children and young people and to prepare children and young people"moved Amendment No. 135:
Page 41, line 14, leave out "pupils and to prepare pupils" and insert "children and young people and to prepare children and young people"Lord Filkin
Page 41, line 15, leave out "adult" and insert "later"moved Amendment No. 136:
Page 41, line 15, leave out "adult" and insert "later"Lord Filkin
745744: Yes, perhaps surprisingly, I do too, while, not surprisingly, not necessarily thinking it needs to go into the Bill. I welcome it because we had a good debate on earlier clauses about how important getting an even stronger grip on behaviour in our schools is in terms of attainment for all pupils. That is not to belittle the considerable progress that has been made by the Government in this respect, nor to over-dramatise the extent of the problem.745744Lord Filkin
742"(2A) In the exercise of their functions the Agency shall have regard, in particular, to the desirability of securing"Page 41, line 12, leave out "and generally to secure" and insert—moved Amendment No. 133:
742"(2A) In the exercise of their functions the Agency shall have regard, in particular, to the desirability of securing"Page 41, line 12, leave out "and generally to secure" and insert—Lord Filkin
gulag709Removing Barriers to Achievement708: I, too, welcome a debate on this subject but I do not particularly welcome having it in the middle of the debate on this Bill, which does not have much to do with it. However, I welcome it because it is one of the issues for which I have a specific ministerial responsibility. Therefore it is close to my heart and actively on my agenda. I shall say a little more about that in a minute.gulag709Removing Barriers to Achievement708Lord Filkin
Page 116, line 21, leave out paragraph (c) and insert— "(c) for paragraph (b) of sub-paragraph (9) substitute—
"(b) proposals adopted under paragraph 14 have effect as mentioned in paragraph 15(b),","Page 115, line 39, leave out paragraph 28(2) and insert section 28(2)moved Amendments Nos. 131 and 132:
Page 116, line 21, leave out paragraph (c) and insert— "(c) for paragraph (b) of sub-paragraph (9) substitute—
"(b) proposals adopted under paragraph 14 have effect as mentioned in paragraph 15(b),","Page 115, line 39, leave out paragraph 28(2) and insert section 28(2)Lord Filkin
717I expect all schools … to be part of these protocols and I will if necessary legislate to achieve this.By September 2005, every Admissions Forum should develop and agree a protocol covering their area for the admission of hard to place children. We will issue guidance and examples of good local agreements and will make consequent changes to the School Admissions Code of Practice.716HansardI thank the noble Baroness for making those points and acknowledging that she had spoken to them earlier. I sought to remember as much as I could, although 717I expect all schools … to be part of these protocols and I will if necessary legislate to achieve this.By September 2005, every Admissions Forum should develop and agree a protocol covering their area for the admission of hard to place children. We will issue guidance and examples of good local agreements and will make consequent changes to the School Admissions Code of Practice.716HansardLord Filkin:
720: We move to a new part; let us hope we make good progress on it. At Second Reading, we stated how important is training and development of the whole school workforce as part of improving educational attainment and the mechanism for helping to deliver the goals of the Children Act. Therefore, I shall not develop that.720Lord Filkin
Every Child Matters723: I shall explain why the probing amendments, which I must not take too literally, would make an unwelcome addition. I do not mean to dismiss them, but I recognise the literalism involved. Such amendments are sometimes a peg on which to hang an argument.Every Child Matters723Lord Filkin
681: Just when I thought that we were making progress, I find that we are about to go backwards again. The illustrative regulations made available to the Committee deal with this issue. Regulation 14 makes it clear that proposals should be referred to the adjudicator by the school organisation committee in certain circumstances. The basic circumstances that we have referred to in previous debates have been when the school organisation committee cannot reach a decision on proposals; two groups cannot vote because of a conflict of interest; the proposals are related to other proposals already being considered by the adjudicator; or the committee had failed to reach any decision within two months.681Lord Filkin
683: There have been occasions when legislating when I have wished that I could go backwards. It was thought that it could not be done, but I am delighted to see that we have found a reverse gear. I shall seek to use it whenever the opportunity arises in the future.683Lord Filkin
686: Not for the first or last time, I am slightly confused. I thought we were dealing with Amendment No. 127C, which is essentially about the consultation processes. But, unless I am mistaken, the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, was speaking to Amendment No. 132ZA, to which we will come later. Be that as it may, let me give the noble Baroness the benefit of the Government's response to Amendment No. 127C.686Lord Filkin
694693692"contains provisions enabling the Secretary of State to direct local authorities … or the governing bodies … to bring forward proposals": I will follow my previous practice of not being drawn on whose policy was pinched from whom, or whether that happened at all. We invented all our policies ourselves through a process called immaculate conception. I shall go no further.694693692"contains provisions enabling the Secretary of State to direct local authorities … or the governing bodies … to bring forward proposals"Lord Filkin
: It is conceptually possible. However, I shall try to make a fuller response by going away and reflecting on whether there is not in fact a duplication of powers. Taking the gist of the comments of the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, I shall examine my argument that we would be foolish to throw away the capacity to deal with exceptional circumstances when it is not burdensome and there are no other ways of dealing with the circumstances.Lord Filkin
: I thank the noble Baroness for giving way. I do not wish to prolong the debate, but there is a small danger that we are drifting into the question of British antipathy to excellence. If, as a consequence of an academy or a foundation school being founded, the quality of education for the children that it is serving improves such that other parents, either in that borough or in other boroughs, wish to bring their children to that school, it is a problem of success, not of failure. It is a spur to the local authorities in those other areas to do something about the quality of their schools better to meet parents' aspirations.Lord Filkin
Success for All748: Clause 73(3) enables the Training and Development Agency for Schools to engage in activities that may benefit not only persons who work in schools but those who teach elsewhere. We propose that the agency should have scope to cater for people working outside schools because some teachers are not simply based on school premises but nevertheless have a teaching function. For example, there are teachers who work in the museum service and others may be catering for special needs outside the school environment. Teachers are also employed in a variety of settings that offer outdoor and experiential learning. However, we have proposed that the agency's scope to cater for people working outside schools should be more limited than its ability to provide for those who work in schools. For example, the agency would not be able to fund the training of administrative support staff other than in schools. The TDA's objectives set the outside parameters on how it may exercise its function. They do not necessarily require the TDA to undertake work in relation to the whole school workforce as defined in the Bill. That the TDA will be able to undertake work which benefits people who teach but do not work in schools can be beneficial for the reasons I gave with regard to those two examples.Success for All748Lord Filkin
750: As the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, indicated, the 1994 Act requires the Secretary of State to have regard to the desirability of including among the members of the TTA's governing body, a range of different types of person. They reflect the range of the TTA's functions when it was established.750Lord Filkin
751: I shall attempt to be as commendably brief as the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, while not avoiding the issue. At the end of each financial year, the TTA has laid before Parliament an annual report of its activities, together with its audited accounts. It has done so and, indeed, it should do so. The report and accounts outline the agency's main activities and
751Lord Filkin
: I will take a closer look to see whether the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has caught us out in an incongruity, although I hope she has not done so. I have no idea why this provision is set out in a schedule, which may well annoy the noble Baroness, Lady Morris. I am told that the provisions for the TDA follow the 1994 Act.Lord Filkin
764: I shall start with the question from the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, about whether collaboration will continue between the TDA and the General Teaching Council. The answer is that it will and must continue. The Government have leverage to ensure that it collaborates in the future because the grant letter, which my noble friend promised will be circulated, enjoins collaboration with all other TTA stakeholders.764Lord Filkin
: The noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, is right. I did, in fact, refer to it during debate on an earlier amendment—although that would probably not have been read across—when I described a discussion that I had had with the chief executive of the GTC about her interest in looking at the whole issue of the regulation, registration and codes of practice around the evolving school workforce professions. While I did not express a view on what the right answer was, because it was not for me to do so and I did not know the right answer, I was certainly strongly affirmative about exploring that discussion with the other potential stakeholders because that is part of our developing agenda. I hope that that positive statement is helpful.Lord Filkin
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I am sure that we all agree with the analysis of the noble Lord, Lord Judd. Obviously small arms kill more people around the world every day than the bigger weapons systems, or weapons of mass destruction even. Exactly what kind of treaty are we working for? Will it include not only full weapons systems and manufactured weapons but also components? I understand that we have loosened our controls on the export of components which go to make up arms. Will the treaty be really comprehensive? Unless it is, of course, it will be about as useful as a water bucket full of holes.Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, just as in this House there have been candid disagreements about the likely success of renewable sources of energy, there have also been candid disagreements about whether we should embark on a new-build policy in relation to nuclear power immediately. Such candid disagreements are reflected in the exchange between the committee and the Government.Lord Triesman
648: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Jenkin, for the way in which he has responded to my first Answer. He drew my attention to the fact that the document was in the Library of the House, which gave me my opportunity to see and read it. I thank him for that.648Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I committed paragraph 1.17 to memory only this morning. During the course of a major debate tomorrow to be introduced by the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, we will have a very good opportunity to explore this in detail.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I am aware of absolutely no change in government policy in the targets on emissions. When speaking in a debate on renewable energy last Friday, I restated all those targets as essential milestones.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, that is one of the strands of the renewables policy. In a debate on Friday in your Lordships' House, we went through some of the advantages of doing precisely what the noble Lord has just suggested. Without trying to avoid answering the question, there is likely to be an extremely detailed discussion tomorrow on all these matters relating to the supply of electricity, and I hope that I can deal with it more appropriately then.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the Minister for Energy sent the response to the chairman of the committee on 17 December. Unfortunately, it was not e-mailed to the Clerk at the same time, and for this I apologise straightforwardly. I draw the attention of Members of the House to the fact that copies were placed in the Libraries on 14 January.Lord Triesman
"We could not avoid the conclusion that the Government are not taking energy problems, sufficiently seriously … most important of all we could find no one at the executive level whose responsibility it was to ensure continuity of supply".: My Lords, would the noble Lord care to comment on paragraph 1.17 of the report? I am sure he will be able to do so. In it, the committee states:
"We could not avoid the conclusion that the Government are not taking energy problems, sufficiently seriously … most important of all we could find no one at the executive level whose responsibility it was to ensure continuity of supply".Lord Ezra
: My Lords, has the EU revised its code of conduct on arms control? If so, what is it?Lord Graham of Edmonton
734"The AU is ready to play a major role in restoring peace and security in Somalia".733"genocidal acts and other atrocities, such as large scale violations of international humanitarian law or large-scale ethnic cleansing",Financial Times732: My Lords, I yield to none in my admiration for the noble Baroness, Lady Cox, but I deprecate the negative tone of this debate and the concentration on the United Nations' failure, rather than an attempt to improve what is undoubtedly a defective and inadequate organisation for the tasks that it has to undertake.734"The AU is ready to play a major role in restoring peace and security in Somalia".733"genocidal acts and other atrocities, such as large scale violations of international humanitarian law or large-scale ethnic cleansing",Financial Times732Lord Avebury
: My Lords, have the Government noticed the flourishing Fairtrade groups which are now active across the country and which are having considerable success in persuading local authorities and others to pass resolutions declaring their region of authority a Fairtrade area? Is this not again an example of the British people not only demanding with words but demonstrating by actions their commitment to international justice in trade? Is it not important therefore that the Government continue to do everything possible to demonstrate that they are at least as equally committed as local authorities across the country?Lord Judd
What are their priorities for the intergovernmental conference to be hosted by Finland and Tanzania in February 2005 to prepare for an international arms trade treaty.asked Her Majesty's Government:
What are their priorities for the intergovernmental conference to be hosted by Finland and Tanzania in February 2005 to prepare for an international arms trade treaty.Lord Judd
: My Lords, while thanking my noble friend for that encouraging reply, does she not agree that uncontrolled arms trafficking in unstable parts of the world is fuelling conflict, undermining human rights and encouraging violent crime? Is it not therefore essential to make an international arms treaty the priority that the Foreign Secretary has suggested it should be? Further, can she assure the House that both at the meeting of the G8 in this country and during our presidency of the European Union, we should put this issue very high on our agenda?Lord Judd
: My Lords, as my noble friend said in her supplementary question, in its brief existence the NHS University has spent around £50 million of taxpayers' money. With that money, it set itself a target to have helped 100,000 people to receive educational and training opportunities by April 2005. Precisely how many people has the NHS University helped so far?Earl Howe
: My Lords, can my noble friend tell the House what evidence there is that private sector companies take the slightest notice whatever of what is on the Government's website?Lord Barnett
736"world has now changed and expectations about legal compliance are much higher".735"decent respect to the opinions of mankind","as contributors to the UN coffers, we are entitled to accountability"."more realistic in its goals and commitments"."a leaner, more efficient and more effective""deeply flawed and ineffective organisation".: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Cox, for initiating a most interesting and much needed debate. Indeed, I understand that it is this topic that will hold the attention of Members of the other place in Westminster Hall tomorrow. I would add my name to the tribute that the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, paid to the noble Baroness.736"world has now changed and expectations about legal compliance are much higher".735"decent respect to the opinions of mankind","as contributors to the UN coffers, we are entitled to accountability"."more realistic in its goals and commitments"."a leaner, more efficient and more effective""deeply flawed and ineffective organisation".Lord Astor of Hever
: I shall not repeat what I said earlier as regards this and preceding amendments. The arguments are not absolutist. I have a huge amount of sympathy for what the noble Lord and the noble Baroness have just said. The issues are finely balanced. I can see their merits. In the end, I would resist the amendment. I am fully committed to rural schools and the rural way of life, but I believe that the onus should be on the school organisation committee and the adjudicator to make the final judgments. We are talking about complex issues here. It is about the relationship between a particular institution in a rural community, whether it is a school or something else, and the rest of the network. That applies to post offices and Methodist chapels and possibly even to parish churches. We seem to be the only people left in some of these communities, so I do not speak with distant coldness. This is a difficult matter, but I would resist this amendment.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, the noble Lord's question was about leadership by example. Could not the Government find ways of giving preferential treatment to those countries devastated by the tsunami disaster by sourcing goods that they might need, so giving their economies extra structural support at a time when the livelihoods of so many people are being rebuilt?The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
659658: I congratulate the Whips' Office on the way this maze of amendments is grouped. I shall speak to Amendment No. 125B and to
659658The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
731very"Sitting 731very"But the luxury hotels are full of UN assessment teams and visiting big shots from New York, Geneva and Vienna. The city sees a steady procession of UN Mercedes sedans and top-of-the-line four-wheeled drive vehicles—a fully decked out Toyota Landcruiser is the UN vehicle of choice; it doesn't seem that concerns about 'global warming' and preserving our tax dollars run too deep among the UNocrats."That work, unfortunately, has brought ever-increasing contact with the growing UN presence in this capital. In fact, we've found that to avoid running into the UN, we must go out to where the quake and the tsunami actually hit. As we come up to two weeks since the disaster struck, the UN is still not to be seen where it counts—except when holding well-staged press events."since the December 26th disaster. Along with my colleagues, I've spent the past days dealing non-stop with the relief effort."This Embassy has been running 24/7"—"The local correspondent of the Guardian newspaper has called the Embassy in Jakarta. He is doing a negative story on the US relief effort based on 'information' provided by the UN at a press conference this morning.Sunday Telegraph730: My Lords, I congratulate my noble friend Lady Cox on her courage in holding this short debate tonight. In doing so, she is, of course, taking a shot at one of the great white elephants of our time, much loved by the unthinking leftish politicians who now have so much influence in international affairs.731very"Sitting 731very"But the luxury hotels are full of UN assessment teams and visiting big shots from New York, Geneva and Vienna. The city sees a steady procession of UN Mercedes sedans and top-of-the-line four-wheeled drive vehicles—a fully decked out Toyota Landcruiser is the UN vehicle of choice; it doesn't seem that concerns about 'global warming' and preserving our tax dollars run too deep among the UNocrats."That work, unfortunately, has brought ever-increasing contact with the growing UN presence in this capital. In fact, we've found that to avoid running into the UN, we must go out to where the quake and the tsunami actually hit. As we come up to two weeks since the disaster struck, the UN is still not to be seen where it counts—except when holding well-staged press events."since the December 26th disaster. Along with my colleagues, I've spent the past days dealing non-stop with the relief effort."This Embassy has been running 24/7"—"The local correspondent of the Guardian newspaper has called the Embassy in Jakarta. He is doing a negative story on the US relief effort based on 'information' provided by the UN at a press conference this morning.Sunday Telegraph730Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords—The Earl of Onslow
"It would transfer functions to another Department of Health body. It would restructure and simplify regulation of the NHS".: My Lords, I am glad that my noble friend has raised the issue because I think that it is a very serious matter. By way of reminder, let me give the House a snippet from what the Conservative Party proposed yesterday in relation to the NHS University:
"It would transfer functions to another Department of Health body. It would restructure and simplify regulation of the NHS".Lord Warner
: My Lords, it is worth bearing in mind that, during the three years from April 2003, more than £180 million will be invested in support of NHS learning accounts, NVQs, adult literacy and numeracy and language skills development. That will help the very people about whom the noble Baroness is concerned. Specifically between April 2003 and March 2004, 100,000 NHS staff accessed NHS learning accounts and undertook NVQ training for levels two and three.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the health sector will of course take full advantage of all the opportunities available. The new NHS Knowledge and Skills Framework is a key part of the Agenda for Change programme. It will enable staff and managers to use joint personal development planning to identify development and career opportunities.Lord Warner
640: My Lords, the NHS University has made important progress since it was first conceived. We have a different interpretation of history, but that is not unusual between this side and the party opposite, particularly on the NHS. The university has provided education and training to thousands of NHS staff. However, because of the Government's success in developing a wide range of training and education opportunities that meet the needs of NHS staff, the situation has changed. The NHS University was primarily a provider; we are now moving to a situation where many of those other providers offer the training programmes that our NHS staff need. The role and situation have changed, so we are making the same
640Lord Warner
: My Lords, as I have explained, when situations change, wise governments review their position. That is exactly what we are doing in this case.Lord Warner
: My Lords, it is certainly in the area of tens of thousands of NHS staff. I shall write to the noble Lord with more precise figures.Lord Warner
: My Lords, my noble friend is right. I think that it is very uncomfortable for the party opposite that under this Government death rates from coronary heart disease and cancer have fallen by unprecedented levels due to the Government's investment in the NHS.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I am not sure that that has much to do with the Question.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the NHS is going through an unprecedented period of growth and improvement. As part of this, we remain committed to widening access to training and education for all NHS staff, the original purpose of the NHS University. We consider that that purpose can best be achieved through the new NHS Institute for Learning, Skills and Innovation, to integrate and strengthen the way we support people development, service improvement and technological innovation in the NHS.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, I am sure the whole House will accept, as I certainly do, without reservation, the Minister's apology. Is it not in fact of some comfort to realise that this was not conspiracy but cock-up?Lord Jenkin of Roding
Renewable Energy: Practicalities (4th Report of Session 2003-04)When they will submit a printed copy of their response to the report of the Select Committee on Science and Technology on Renewable Energy: Practicalities (4th Report of Session 2003-04)asked Her Majesty's Government:
Renewable Energy: Practicalities (4th Report of Session 2003-04)When they will submit a printed copy of their response to the report of the Select Committee on Science and Technology on Renewable Energy: Practicalities (4th Report of Session 2003-04)Lord Jenkin of Roding
: I shall move a series of amendments associated with these issues in a moment. But I would like to comment on one point made by the right reverend Prelate. He said that sometimes legal officers rule that representatives of the Church of England, the Catholic and other churches, on the school organisation committee are not allowed to participate, particularly to vote. That is sometimes also the rule for elected members. An elected member cannot speak or vote on the school which is to be established or reorganised in his or her area. Sometimes it also applies to governors of schools. Therefore, often electorates are unrepresented because their elected members cannot speak for them because they have, not a pecuniary interest, but an interest. It makes several of the school reorganisation proposals sometimes very difficult for local members, governors and Church representatives to speak about. I wanted to add that to the pot because it is a problem in terms of people being able to represent the views of others on school organisation matters. Can the Minister comment on those points about representation?Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for his answers. When he talked about the four months for preparation of plans and then a certain amount of time that people can object to those plans, I questioned how local people were to be involved. At the moment there are local meetings to which parents can go. Plans do not necessarily need to be published but there needs to be some kind of format in which people can discuss them. Does the Minister envisage how people can be well informed about these alternative plans so that people can make observations and decide whether to object to or approve the plans?Lord Hanningfield
664"Proposals under this section shall … contain such information, and … be published in such manner, as may be prescribed".663: A series of amendments were tabled by the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp. The Minister
664"Proposals under this section shall … contain such information, and … be published in such manner, as may be prescribed".663Lord Hanningfield
674Page 97, line 33, leave out paragraph 3.moved Amendment No. 127ZA:
674Page 97, line 33, leave out paragraph 3.Lord Hanningfield
: Perhaps I should have explained that abolishing the committees would take us back to the local authority, as it did in the past, taking those decisions, except when they were controversial, when they were referred to the Secretary of State. Most decisions—probably 75 to 80 per cent of them—were taken locally by a local authority. That is what I would prefer, with exceptional decisions—which would certainly be relevant to the Bill—taken by the Secretary of State.Lord Hanningfield
East Anglian Daily Times679: I have probably been associated with this problem for too long, as I have been involved in school reorganisation for more than 20 years. During the five years in which I was chairman of a local authority education committee—Essex is very large; it has 800 schools—I reorganised, amalgamated or changed more than 400 schools without any problem. It was all done by agreement with schools, parents or the public. It is good to have a wider debate on a controversial proposal; that always happened previously. Much is now deferred and made more bureaucratic because simple things take much longer to achieve.East Anglian Daily Times679Lord Hanningfield
672: With the past few amendments we have had a lot of information. I thank the Minister
672Lord Hanningfield
671Page 39, line 23, after "may" insert "at the same time or subsequently"moved Amendment No. 125C:
671Page 39, line 23, after "may" insert "at the same time or subsequently"Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for all that information, which we need to digest. I repeat that, with local authorities these days, for any new scheme—even a minor road scheme—presentations tend be put on in local village halls, and so on, so that people can go and look. Life has changed a lot in the past few years about how the public want to be involved in these matters. I agree that you do not want to prescribe exactly what should happen about the consultation, but there certainly needs to be in both regulation and guidance enough strength to make certain that local people are involved in the decision-making process.Lord Hanningfield
: I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
: I look forward to the Minister's reply to my questions on recruitment overseas.Lord Hanningfield
760Page 43, line 24, leave out from "Agency" to end of line 25.moved Amendment No. 139A:
760Page 43, line 24, leave out from "Agency" to end of line 25.Lord Hanningfield
: As with several other answers, I find that answer very helpful and I thank the noble Baroness for it. I shall read the answer to ensure that we are clear about the situation. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
After Clause 69, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 130B:
After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the Minister for his response. I agree that not everything set out in regulations can be brought before Parliament. We would need another Chamber to deal with it all. But important issues arise that involve a distinct shift of policy, affecting what happens to the structure of our schools. As I said in moving the amendment, this will affect the entire education system in England.Lord Hanningfield
: We have rather put the cart before the horse here. This amendment obviously follows on from Amendment No. 127A. However, the Minister's response is helpful in that it sets out what the Government intend to do. We shall debate the earlier amendment in a moment, but we will reflect on the answer just given by the noble Lord. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
682"() The first publication of the guidance given under sub-paragraph (b) should be approved by Parliament."Page 98, line 32, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 127A:
682"() The first publication of the guidance given under sub-paragraph (b) should be approved by Parliament."Page 98, line 32, at end insert—Lord Hanningfield
Page 98, line 45, at end insert "and should set out criteria for determining whether a case is to be referred to the adjudicator"moved Amendment No. 127B:
Page 98, line 45, at end insert "and should set out criteria for determining whether a case is to be referred to the adjudicator"Lord Hanningfield
718Page 41, line 7, at end insert by developing productive partnerships with other providers of continuing professional development"moved Amendment No. 132A:
718Page 41, line 7, at end insert by developing productive partnerships with other providers of continuing professional development"Lord Hanningfield
: I should like to thank the noble Lord for those words. As I said in my introductory remarks, this was a big issue at the time we were discussing Part 1 of the Bill and what Ofsted was required to inspect the school for. We are back to the subject in the training of teachers. It is a fundamental issue in the improvement of our schools. I was pleased to hear the Minister acknowledge that.Lord Hanningfield
Page 41, line 13, after "the" insert "behavioural,"moved Amendment No. 134:
Page 41, line 13, after "the" insert "behavioural,"Lord Hanningfield
I thank the Minister for that reply. The other professional bodies have been concerned about the increased role of the GTCE. As I said, we support it, but when you give a new body more powers, sometimes other bodies wonder exactly how they relate to it. The professionals to whom I have spoken have expressed concern. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield:
710: I thank the Minister for his reply and the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, and the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for their interventions. We tabled the amendment because we are having an education Bill. The Minister described the situation in the special education world as "turbulent". That is true. I have had some recent exposure to it with regard to the school that to my knowledge is not going to be closed. It is a well regarded school that deals with autistic children, but the rumours are that it might be closed. I visited it. It is a very popular school.710Lord Hanningfield
en bloc712711"A Labour Government would not close your grammar schools. That is my personal guarantee. I am not interested in closing good schools".Sections 105, 106, 107, 108 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) shall cease to have effect."After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 130C:
en bloc712711"A Labour Government would not close your grammar schools. That is my personal guarantee. I am not interested in closing good schools".Sections 105, 106, 107, 108 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) shall cease to have effect."After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
: Does the noble Baroness agree that if we are going to have elections that might be best done through the Electoral Reform Society? They could be properly conducted under better rules than the current procedure, which gives rise to the anomalies that I instanced and which could lead to abuses of the system. It might be better to have fairly orthodox and well regulated ballots.Lord Hanningfield
: I thank the noble Baroness for that reply. I was pleased to hear, as we have heard before, that the Government do not wish to close existing grammar schools. Some people say that academies will be like grammar schools. I am sure that some people have that fear. I might not have that fear, but academies are a type of school that some parents might wish to choose. I would have liked the Government to have thought more and to have taken this opportunity, if we are going to have ballots, at least to make them slightly more satisfactory than they are now. But I hear what the noble Baroness says. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Hanningfield
763: Amendment No. 139C is grouped with this amendment. Clause 80 provides the agency with a new broad power to do anything it thinks fit in furtherance of its objectives. The Explanatory Notes tell us that this will allow the agency to undertake functions such as setting standards for the award of qualifications and the administration of schemes. Subsection (2), which Amendment No. 139C would leave out, provides that the agency will be able to provide information, advice and other services to persons outside England and Wales.763Lord Hanningfield
: I am sorry, my Lords. I could not hear my noble friend. In view of the laudable aim to develop training and education for many of our low-paid workers and people just starting in the health service in the way described, has my noble friend analysed the impact on those staff made by the Tory announcement of that party's intention to reduce funding for initiatives of this kind?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: My Lords—Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: My Lords, I beg to introduce a Bill to make provision about traffic wardens and parking attendants. I beg to move that this Bill be now read a first time.Lord Lucas
691: The answer to the question put by the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, has already been provided in my noble friend's outline of the Conservative Party's policy. That would allow people to found new schools with relative freedom, so that the parts of the community that are not already addressed by successful schools can be addressed by people who have the enthusiasm, innovation and ideas necessary to tackle the more difficult locations in cities and elsewhere.691Lord Lucas
: Perhaps I may quiz the Minister a bit further. He sees these very much as reserve powers—clearly that is how they have been used in the past—but I thought that one of the Government's innovations was the ability to place a local authority that was seriously failing on special measures and take over the management of its business. Surely, in those circumstances, whoever was put in charge of the local authority would be able, among the other things they did, to rationalise school places. So are we saying that there is a category of failing authority that is insufficiently bad that it should be placed under what might be called special measures but to which the Secretary of State would none the less wish to apply the measures in Clause 66? I find that very hard to comprehend.Lord Lucas
: My Lords, will the noble Lord consult with his colleagues at Defra about progress on combined heat and power stations fuelled by wood and timber waste? In asking that question, I declare my interest as a woodland owner.Lord Hylton
Whether government and public sector purchasing of imported products, especially from developing countries, is based on fair-trading and ethical standards.asked Her Majesty's Government:
Whether government and public sector purchasing of imported products, especially from developing countries, is based on fair-trading and ethical standards.Lord Hylton
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his helpful reply. Does he agree that the Government have an opportunity to set standards for the private sector—for example, by never buying for less than the cost of production, by using long-term contracts and by ensuring that conditions of work and trades union rights in the countries of origin are of the highest possible standard?Lord Hylton
: Before this debate finishes I wish to make a couple of very quick points. Those made by the right reverend Prelate about rural areas are very important indeed in terms of the sparsity of population and the impact that school closures can have in those areas and the creation of new schools. We need to be very careful in particular about cross-border issues between England and Wales.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: I thank the Minister for giving way. Does she agree with me that the quality of the education has to be equated with the social well-being of the children? In some instances that I know of, children of four, five, six and seven are being asked to make a round trip of 50 miles a day. That has to be a very important issue in the balance between quality and stress, as it does affect very young children. In many cases, that is why parents oppose the closure of their local school so strongly.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
702: I support what has been said about rural primary schools. I would like the Minister to clarify whether the amendment would apply to Wales as well as England or whether it relates totally to England.702Lord Livsey of Talgarth
747: I speak from the Back Bench. I cannot speak from the Front Bench, as my noble friend has already spoken. As a former teacher in FE for 14 years, I think that the amendment is useful. I remember that in those days not all of my colleagues had the necessary skills—that is being kind to them—to deliver everything that was required up to the standard required. There were people who did not
747Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: I endorse what the noble Lord, Lord Rowlands, has just said. I was going to make a similar point and say that it would be wrong to deny the Assembly this function. Indeed, from the audit point of view the Assembly's situation is pretty watertight. So, I would just go along entirely with what the noble Lord, Lord Rowlands, has just said.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
Page 45, line 27, at end insert "and professional development"moved Amendment No. 139E:
Page 45, line 27, at end insert "and professional development"Lord Livsey of Talgarth
Hansard: I thank the noble Baroness for that reply and in particular for emphasising the partnership aspects of the functions within Wales. I certainly accept many of her arguments. I will read HansardLord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, following the world summit on sustainable development, the Government pledged to ensure that the £13 billion of goods and services that they buy every year were "sustainable". Within that total, have the Government contemplated setting a target for purchasing Fairtrade products? If not, will they?Lord Newby
: My Lords, instead of carping about some minor administrative change in the health service, would we not be better thanking those employed in that service, who deliver a first-class service day in, day out, in improved hospitals, accident and emergency units and cancer units up and down the country?Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
: I assume that Amendment No. 127A is not moved. Amendment No. 127AA has been spoken to.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Elton)
: The answer to the noble Baroness's question is yes. I apologise that in our enthusiasm we have leapfrogged Amendment No. 127A.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: I called Amendment No. 127A earlier, at which point the Committee agreed that it should not be moved. But I understand that it was not included in the earlier group and that the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, would like to move it.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: The eloquence of the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, in advocating the policy does not cause the point that the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, and I are making. There is not necessarily an antithesis between what I was saying and what you are arguing. I am concerned that, in making such decisions, the needs of particular communities—particularly communities of social deprivation—should be weighed in the balance of policy decisions.Lord Dearing
: I welcome the amendment as a means of calling attention to an issue. Of course, it is right to include the principle, but it does not work unless teachers have the distinctive special skills to respond to those children and unless the resource is adequate to enable them to do so. My limited experience is that those conditions are not met and that therefore the children may not be receiving as good an education as they would if they went to a special school. It is very important to be conscious of this issue and I welcome the amendment.Lord Dearing
690: I would like to expand a little on what the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has said on the
690Lord Dearing
: I will be brief. We earlier heard the argument that looking at the behavioural performance of children should be included explicitly in the duty of the inspectorate. The Minister argued that that was not necessary. He may well be right. But it would be helpful—as has been proposed here—to include it as one of the major points in which would-be teachers have to be skilled before they are set loose in the classroom. It is a major requirement nowadays. I welcome the noble Lord's initiative in tabling the amendment.Lord Dearing
: Given the choice between the two parts of the Bill, I am convinced that Ofsted are considering the matter seriously, so the amendment would be my preferred choice, if there was an issue of choice. If the lads and lasses who are teachers can do it, it solves the problem. The inspectors cannot solve it.Lord Dearing
661: Does the Minister wish to reply to the point about school organisation committees at this point? If not, I shall intervene and, in order to keep my interventions to a minimum, I shall speak on a block of four amendments—this amendment and the next three—which deal with one issue; that is, the involvement of local authorities661Lord Dearing
641: My Lords, may we take it from the Minister's conviction of the value of training and education for NHS staff that, first, there will be no reduction in the level of funding? Secondly, will it take
641Lord Dearing
: I intervene briefly because I was puzzled by the nature of this amendment. The powers that were sought and conferred upon the then Secretary of State in 1994 are simply being re-enacted. Originally a Conservative administration sought such powers and now they have been transferred—as I understand it—under the transfer of powers order laid under the Government of Wales Act on to the Assembly after devolution. This is purely a re-enactment of those original powers.Lord Rowlands
: My Lords, do the Government perceive this treaty to be one mainly concerned with small arms and light weapons, or one covering the full spectrum of weaponry, given that the Government are concerned about indebtedness in developing countries? We all know that some of those debts have been incurred by previous regimes in the competition to acquire expensive, top-end weapons systems such as missiles and manned aircraft.Lord Wallace of Saltaire
643: My Lords, can the noble Baroness give us an assurance that the Government will pay particular attention to bringing to a stop the sale of weapons and even landmines, still, to very sensitive areas like Aceh in Indonesia, Darfur, the DRC and all other trouble spots around the world?
643Baroness Chalker of Wallasey
: My Lords, will the Government undertake to ensure, through the EU, that training is given to developing countries seeking to engage in Fairtrade when the EU takes a decision to raise "phsyto-sanitary" and other standards for the importation of goods? There was a recent, very serious situation, where the standards were raised on 1 January and no training was in place until some interventions were made very late in the day. It could have damaged Fairtrade in developing countries very considerably. We could put this right for the future. Can the Minister give that undertaking?Baroness Chalker of Wallasey
"If you engage in the systematic and gross abuse of human rights in defiance of the UN Charter, you cannot expect to enjoy the same privileges as those who conform to it"727eminences grises"Sex and the UN: when peacemakers became predators",Independent726jihad"I cannot think of a single successful UN peacekeeping mission. Either the soldiers have no power to stop genocide, as in Bosnia and Rwanda, or they are too late, as in Kosovo and Cambodia".725"We must make sure that [the United Nations] work is fruitful. That it is a reality and not a sham. That it is a force for action, and not merely a frothing of words, that it is a true temple of peace in which the shields of many nations can some day be hung up, and not merely a cockpit in a Tower of Babel".rose to ask Her Majesty's Government whether they will review the role and functioning of the United Nations and its agencies."If you engage in the systematic and gross abuse of human rights in defiance of the UN Charter, you cannot expect to enjoy the same privileges as those who conform to it"727eminences grises"Sex and the UN: when peacemakers became predators",Independent726jihad"I cannot think of a single successful UN peacekeeping mission. Either the soldiers have no power to stop genocide, as in Bosnia and Rwanda, or they are too late, as in Kosovo and Cambodia".725"We must make sure that [the United Nations] work is fruitful. That it is a reality and not a sham. That it is a force for action, and not merely a frothing of words, that it is a true temple of peace in which the shields of many nations can some day be hung up, and not merely a cockpit in a Tower of Babel".Baroness Cox
741740739738737: My Lords, I, too, congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Cox, on securing this debate on UN reform and thank all noble Lords on their reflective and, at times, spirited contributions. I hope that the noble Lord, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, will accept that I may be on the left, but not the unthinking left—perhaps the trendy left741740739738737Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the Government are determined to lend their strongest support to the arms trade treaty. As the noble Baroness knows, only a month after the Government came to office in 1997, we decided to introduce national regulations to cover all applications for arms exports. That was the first time that this country had such regulations. A year later, during our first presidency of the EU, we established an arms treaty negotiation with other member countries based on that original set of national regulations. We are now looking at the arms trade treaty to see what can be done with other member states and with our international partners to make it a reality.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, although we are only at a very early stage of the ATT and therefore unable to go into the detail of what it will contain, we hope that it would be subject to future multilateral negotiations. At the moment there is no blueprint for what the treaty should look like, but in terms of its scope, we are not inclined to limit it to cover small arms and light weapons. So far as we are concerned, it would be preferable for the treaty to be as wide as possible— at least for now.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the EU code of conduct is being revised at this moment. The state of play so far is that we would increase the scope of the code—which, as I have said, has been in place since 1989—to cover applications for brokering, transhipment and electronic technology transfer licences. It would also oblige member states to refuse export licences if they consider that there is a clear risk that the items covered by the licence could be used to commit serious violations of international human rights law.Baroness Crawley
644: My Lords, we want the treaty to be as comprehensive as possible. I congratulate the noble Lord. I believe it is his birthday today. We want the treaty to be a legally binding set of rules on arms exports, with the objective of reducing, and ultimately eradicating, the irresponsible arms exports which fuel conflict and human rights abuses. As I have said, we do not have a blueprint; we are not going to pre-judge the negotiations with UN and EU countries on this. We are discussing the arms trade treaty with Finland,
644Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I strongly agree with my noble friend's analysis of the terrible destruction that could be brought about by an unbridled arms race. We are the first G8 member, UN Security Council member and large defence exporter to give our committed support to an arms trade treaty. I hope that my noble friend will be encouraged when I say to him that we will use our presidency of the EU and our chair of the G8 this year to ensure that the arms trade treaty is taken up by as many countries as possible, and that negotiations should begin.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the Government are aware that a seminar in relation to a proposed arms trade treaty may be hosted by Tanzania in February. To date, however, we understand that formal invitations and the agenda have yet to be issued. It is therefore not possible now to establish what the probable results of the seminar will be. However, the Government are committed to pursuing the objective of an arms trade treaty, as announced by my right honourable friend Jack Straw on 30 September 2004. If we are invited to attend, we will continue this work at the seminar.Baroness Crawley
729728"The senior management no longer display the levels of integrity expected of all employees of the organisation".: My Lords, after that speech by the noble Baroness, I have a difficult act to follow. As the full debate of the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, on the UN's high-level panel report includes in its agenda the causes of conflict in Africa, I shall be brief today.729728"The senior management no longer display the levels of integrity expected of all employees of the organisation".Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, could the noble Lord say whether it could just be that the Government's response was not sent to the press or to the specialist press—leaving aside the question of whether it was cock-up or conspiracy, and I accept what my noble friend has already accepted—because the report was so damning on their energy policy? I shall not quote numbers, but one section says that with the exception of the Government, hardly anyone thinks that their energy targets, set out in the White Paper, will ever be reached.Baroness Miller of Hendon
678677676: That was an interesting debate between the two Front Benches. I am grateful for the welcome by the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, to the school organisation committee. We believe that it is working. I did not recognise the picture put forward by the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, although I acknowledge his great practical experience in this field.678677676Baroness Andrews
: I beg to move that the House do now resume. In doing so I suggest that the Committee stage of the Education Bill should start not before twenty-five minutes to nine.Baroness Andrews
714: The Electoral Reform Society is involved at a very early stage. Once 10 or more people notify the Electoral Reform Society that they intend to raise the petition, the ERS must set the threshold for that petition—the number of parents who must sign the petition in favour of a ballot to form the 20 per cent required for the ballot to be held. That is a very important safeguard. We recognise that raising a petition is a significant task. It is only right that it is established that there is a genuine desire for a ballot among a significant proportion of parents. That brings with it costs. We understand that and are prepared to support the costs in that sense.714Baroness Andrews
Every Child Matters713: This is an Education Bill and it is very tempting to have a debate, however short, on the future of grammar schools. I respect that.Every Child Matters713Baroness Andrews
705: Yes, all noble Lords would agree with that. The relationship between well-being, however defined, and educational success and confidence is very clear. Travelling many miles a day is not good for small
705Baroness Andrews
704703: I am grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken in this short but important debate,
704703Baroness Andrews
699698: The noble Baroness, Lady Morris, acknowledged that the drafting of the amendment was not quite right. Oppositions are sometimes allowed not to get it quite right. She is, indeed, referring to parts of Section 52 of the Education Act 2002, which currently provides for the setting up of independent appeals panels. But she made a good fist of explaining why she thought that the appeals panels had outlived their usefulness and I hope to counter that, while taking account of her description of the Conservatives' policy on turnaround schools, for which we are all grateful.699698Baroness Andrews
: Our departmental intelligence has just confirmed that academies will not come up before a school organisation committee. If the noble Baroness wishes, I can confirm that in writing.Baroness Andrews
753: I am sorry the noble Baroness is alarmed by the schedule. You toughen up after a while in this House.753Baroness Andrews
: The changes proposed by the noble Lord would certainly remove the power of the Secretary of State to set terms and conditions in relation to the grant that should be paid to the agency. I am afraid that that may well leave my right honourable friend unable to give the agency any guidance in the use of taxpayers' money that it received. The agency will receive, for example, £0.75 billion for the next financial year. That money will be devoted to particular activities including the agency's staffing and administrative costs.Baroness Andrews
: This is a jolly little amendment. It is clear that the noble Baroness is on the side of the angels at the moment. She is opposed to the unrestricted proliferation of committees, and we certainly agree with that, whether the committees in question are part of a funding agency or any other body.Baroness Andrews
757756: Before I address the questions that the noble Baroness has raised—some of which I cannot answer in any detail, so I shall have to write to her—let me explain what will be achieved by the amendment. It is extremely important.757756Baroness Andrews
Hansard759I am extremely pleased to be able to do that. I hope that I can give the noble Baroness the examples which she requested of how the provisions will operate. She is right that the reasoning is a mixture of propriety, financial accountability, transparency and good financial management. If we removed these provisions from the Bill it would certainly have a number of unwelcome effects, notably on individual trainees and serving members of the school workforce undertaking continuing professional development—CPD—activities.Hansard759Baroness Andrews:
770769carte blanche768: One of the great joys of this Chamber is the tremendous support and wisdom of senior Members of the other place, who have played
770769carte blanche768Baroness Andrews
766: Because of the noble Lord's experience in this field, I am very grateful to him for contributing to this debate, and I hope that I can give him the assurance that he seeks.766Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, will the Minister, having admitted that a mistake was made with regard to the report, confirm or deny reports stating that internal documents reveal that the Government have tried to have their commitments to lower the targets set for carbon emissions deleted from the European text at meetings in September and December?Baroness Byford
: My Lords, most people welcomed the idea of the NHS University when it was first mooted because it was particularly designed to help people to get access to education. What will happen under this new system, with the new organisation, NILSI, to ensure that the low-paid and least-skilled workers, to whom we are all grateful, now really get access to foundation courses, which they have not had thus far with the NHSU?Baroness Neuberger
"This would mean quietly dropping the idea that new independent state secondary schools could set their own admissions criteria. But it would reinforce rather than undermine other existing commitments to put schools at the heart of their communities. And it would help to smooth the transition between primary and secondary school, back up the Children's Bill proposals for the most vulnerable young people, and. crucially, enhance progress on standards for the most challenging pupils by giving them an entitlement to the schools that are currently the preserve of the most socially and academically desirable".Education Guardian"We will never return to a system based on selection of the few and rejection of the many; we will not abandon intervention in failing schools; and we will not cast aside our ambitious targets for schools to keep on improving. Independence will be within a framework of fair admissions, full accountability and strong partnerships that drive improvement"652Official Repor"Independence will be within a framework of fair admissions, full accountability and strong partnership. We will never return to a system based on selection of the few and rejection of the many. The strict national requirement for fair admissions will remain and we will not allow any extension of selection by ability".—[Official Reporad hoc"We believe that it is time for Ministers to engage in an informed debate about the role of selection in secondary education and its impact across the education system as a whole. The Government needs to explain how it reconciles its insistence that there will be no return to selection with its willingness to retain and increase selection where it already exists. Without an honest and robust engagement with this issue the Government's policy on selection will continue to appear ad hoc651A New Relationship with SchoolsA New Relationship with SchoolsIn exercising any powers under Part 3 of this Act and Parts 2 and 3 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31), the Secretary of State is to have regard to the principle that, in the organisation of secondary education, there shall be no extension of selection by ability".Before Clause 63, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 125ZA:
"This would mean quietly dropping the idea that new independent state secondary schools could set their own admissions criteria. But it would reinforce rather than undermine other existing commitments to put schools at the heart of their communities. And it would help to smooth the transition between primary and secondary school, back up the Children's Bill proposals for the most vulnerable young people, and. crucially, enhance progress on standards for the most challenging pupils by giving them an entitlement to the schools that are currently the preserve of the most socially and academically desirable".Education Guardian"We will never return to a system based on selection of the few and rejection of the many; we will not abandon intervention in failing schools; and we will not cast aside our ambitious targets for schools to keep on improving. Independence will be within a framework of fair admissions, full accountability and strong partnerships that drive improvement"652Official Repor"Independence will be within a framework of fair admissions, full accountability and strong partnership. We will never return to a system based on selection of the few and rejection of the many. The strict national requirement for fair admissions will remain and we will not allow any extension of selection by ability".—[Official Reporad hoc"We believe that it is time for Ministers to engage in an informed debate about the role of selection in secondary education and its impact across the education system as a whole. The Government needs to explain how it reconciles its insistence that there will be no return to selection with its willingness to retain and increase selection where it already exists. Without an honest and robust engagement with this issue the Government's policy on selection will continue to appear ad hoc651A New Relationship with SchoolsA New Relationship with SchoolsIn exercising any powers under Part 3 of this Act and Parts 2 and 3 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31), the Secretary of State is to have regard to the principle that, in the organisation of secondary education, there shall be no extension of selection by ability".Before Clause 63, insert the following new clause—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for his reply, but I am not sure that he replied to my question about why the definition of a middle school was being changed.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
[Proposals not requiring consent of Secretary of State]654: I thank the Minister for his reply. I clearly stated that the Government's position was written five times in the five-year strategy and that they had no intention of extending selection by ability. The purpose of the amendment was to enable the Government to put that within the context of this Bill, because there is the potential in some of the new structures that they are establishing for some schools with greater independence to introduce some element of selection by ability. I proposed the amendment to ensure that that would not be the case.[Proposals not requiring consent of Secretary of State]654Baroness Sharp of Guildford
Page 37, line 28, leave out subsections (3) and (4).moved Amendment No. 125A:
Page 37, line 28, leave out subsections (3) and (4).Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: Will the Minister remind us what role school organisation committees will play in relation to academies? Will there be a normal choice process with academies, or will they be, to some extent, excluded and given a fast track?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I have more sympathy with the notion that the provision should refer to the local education authority. There is no doubt that on occasions there were difficulties regarding local authorities taking decisions. Rather than going to the Secretary of State for a decision, having the adjudicator available has had some advantages. We believe that the school organisation committee has worked reasonably well and is in tune with local feelings. I should be worried about the relative anarchy of the Conservative Party proposals.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
675: We face in a diametrically opposite direction from the Conservatives.
675Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"The following schools fall within this subsection … a foundation school; … a voluntary school;… an Academy".669"() a community school"Page 39, line 8, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 125BA:
"The following schools fall within this subsection … a foundation school; … a voluntary school;… an Academy".669"() a community school"Page 39, line 8, at end insert—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I am grateful to the Minister for clarifying the situation. I think that I understand it better as a result of what he has said. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My name is associated with that of the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, on Amendments Nos. 125C and 126A. I want to reinforce his message that there is a feeling that perhaps there is not a level playing field and that local authorities are drawing the short straw over these proposals. We seek a reassurance from the Minister that there will be fairness in relation to the local authorities and that they are seen as real partners working with the local community for the local community in bringing forward new proposals.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I am grateful to the Minister for his reassuring reply. It is helpful to have on the record the fact that the Secretary of State would consult these authorities. None of the amendments proposed that Parliament should be consulted, only that local authorities should be consulted as appropriate. That seems to me to be reasonable.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: Presumably, those schools were included under the School Standards and Framework Act. At that point, they were included as middle schools, and they were not part of the secondary school framework. I understand what the Minister is saying, and I thank him for his response.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
657"to have regard to any guidance … from … the Secretary of State"."guidance … from … the Secretary of State"."may with the consent of the Secretary of State"."() When considering whether to grant consent to publish under subsection (2), the Secretary of State shall have regard to any representations made by the local education authority for the area in which the school is proposed, and any other local education authority likely to be affected by the proposal."Page 38, line 13, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 125B:
657"to have regard to any guidance … from … the Secretary of State"."guidance … from … the Secretary of State"."may with the consent of the Secretary of State"."() When considering whether to grant consent to publish under subsection (2), the Secretary of State shall have regard to any representations made by the local education authority for the area in which the school is proposed, and any other local education authority likely to be affected by the proposal."Page 38, line 13, at end insert—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: Like the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, I have also given notice of my intention to oppose the Question that Clauses 64 and 69 stand part of the Bill, and I want to add to what the noble Lord said. There is concern about the new proposals in Clause 64, which effectively substitutes Section 28 of the School Standards and Framework Act. It is felt that perhaps undue preference is being given to the independent foundation schools and that there is no level playing field with local authority proposals. We shall come to that in a moment when I talk about my small amendment to Clause 65.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: For information, can the Minister tell me whether I am right in thinking that these proposals do not apply to schools which have been put into special measures and which therefore might be regarded as failing schools?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: May I ask the Minister, in so far as he reflects on this issue, to take particular account of cases where proposals are published just before the summer holidays? Often, inevitably, consultation takes the form of meetings arranged at schools, and so on. If you have a limited period for consultation, that cannot happen during the six weeks of the summer holidays. That timing often limits the degree to which local people can get involved.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"serious consideration must be given to assuring the quality and competence of the whole of the children's workforce. Currently, the law requires only those with Qualified Teacher Status, working in maintained schools and non-maintained special schools and pupil referral units to register with the GTC. We will initiate and contribute actively to a debate about registration and regulation".Corporate Plan 2004–2007"in relation to continuing professional development for the wider schools workforce. The TTA has identified the GTC as a likely Member of its new Programme Board and new opportunities for joint working will emerge once the formal announcement of the TTA remit has been made"."The GTC for England has been involved and consulted on the major expansion of the TTA's remit",762"However, the Agency must not do anything in Wales (except where the functions have been given to them by regulations made under the Education Act 2002) unless they have been requested to do so by the Assembly and the Agency have given notice that they have agreed to such a request"."This clause provides the Agency with a new broad power to do anything they think fit in furtherance of their objectives"."with the exceptions of those functions covered by the General Teaching Councils in England and Wales"."The Agency may do anything which they think fit in furtherance of any of the objectives set out in section 72(2)".Page 44, line 45, at end insert "with the exceptions of those functions covered by the General Teaching Councils in England and Wales"moved Amendment No. 139B:
"serious consideration must be given to assuring the quality and competence of the whole of the children's workforce. Currently, the law requires only those with Qualified Teacher Status, working in maintained schools and non-maintained special schools and pupil referral units to register with the GTC. We will initiate and contribute actively to a debate about registration and regulation".Corporate Plan 2004–2007"in relation to continuing professional development for the wider schools workforce. The TTA has identified the GTC as a likely Member of its new Programme Board and new opportunities for joint working will emerge once the formal announcement of the TTA remit has been made"."The GTC for England has been involved and consulted on the major expansion of the TTA's remit",762"However, the Agency must not do anything in Wales (except where the functions have been given to them by regulations made under the Education Act 2002) unless they have been requested to do so by the Assembly and the Agency have given notice that they have agreed to such a request"."This clause provides the Agency with a new broad power to do anything they think fit in furtherance of their objectives"."with the exceptions of those functions covered by the General Teaching Councils in England and Wales"."The Agency may do anything which they think fit in furtherance of any of the objectives set out in section 72(2)".Page 44, line 45, at end insert "with the exceptions of those functions covered by the General Teaching Councils in England and Wales"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for his response. However, so far as I know, he did not reply to my final query about the Government's views on the development of some form of regulation and registration for those who are part of the teacher workforce but who are not necessarily teachers as such.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for that and beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I congratulate the Minister on saying "boo" to the Treasury on one or two occasions. It is very unusual. So frequently we say "Well, it was in the Bill before and we have always had it". I am delighted to hear that this has been questioned from the start.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: We have a great deal of sympathy with the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
752: I thank the noble Baroness for giving way. I should like to get in a brief word before she withdraws her amendment.752Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I should just like to say how important the amendment is. It is important for us to get clear precisely who is covered by the TDA and who is not. I also agree with the noble Baroness that we should be concerned with the training of teachers in the further education sector.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"Expanding popular schools, closing unsuccessful schools and creating more academies may well appeal electorally. But an unlicensed education market could all too easily damage the education of pupils in those schools that descend into an irretrievable spiral of decline"."Expanding one school means contracting others in an area. Pupils in these schools are every bit as entitled to a good education as those fortunate enough to be in the more 'successful' schools"."The principle of stack 'em high, sell 'em cheap may work in supermarkets but it is not a recipe for successful schools".Times Educational Supplement"We will introduce a fast-track process to speed up expansion to take less than twelve weeks (unless there is an appeal); and we will reinforce the existing strong presumption that expansion proposals should be agreed".689"There is no 'surplus places rule' that prevents schools from expanding. All successful and popular schools may propose to expand, and we strongly support them in doing so where they believe they can sustain their quality. We have introduced dedicated capital funding to encourage expansion, and have given strong guidance to local decision-makers that they should allow expansion in all but exceptional circumstances""Schedule 11 contains provisions enabling the Secretary of State to direct local education authorities in England, or the governing bodies of schools maintained by them, to bring forward proposals for the rationalisation of school places, and for such proposals to be made by him".: Along with the names of the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, and the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, my name is attached to the Question whether Clause 66 should stand part. Specifically, my name is attached to Amendment No. 127D, to which I shall speak shortly."Expanding popular schools, closing unsuccessful schools and creating more academies may well appeal electorally. But an unlicensed education market could all too easily damage the education of pupils in those schools that descend into an irretrievable spiral of decline"."Expanding one school means contracting others in an area. Pupils in these schools are every bit as entitled to a good education as those fortunate enough to be in the more 'successful' schools"."The principle of stack 'em high, sell 'em cheap may work in supermarkets but it is not a recipe for successful schools".Times Educational Supplement"We will introduce a fast-track process to speed up expansion to take less than twelve weeks (unless there is an appeal); and we will reinforce the existing strong presumption that expansion proposals should be agreed".689"There is no 'surplus places rule' that prevents schools from expanding. All successful and popular schools may propose to expand, and we strongly support them in doing so where they believe they can sustain their quality. We have introduced dedicated capital funding to encourage expansion, and have given strong guidance to local decision-makers that they should allow expansion in all but exceptional circumstances""Schedule 11 contains provisions enabling the Secretary of State to direct local education authorities in England, or the governing bodies of schools maintained by them, to bring forward proposals for the rationalisation of school places, and for such proposals to be made by him".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"experience suggests that the backing of the foundation can help strengthen a school's mission and ethos, and inject drive and dynamism into school leadership".685"to encourage foundation secondary schools to acquire foundations which will be able to appoint the majority of the governing body of the school",684Consultation as required by this Schedule shall be at such time and of such duration as may be required so as to ensure that persons wishing to respond to consultation shall have reasonable opportunity to do so having regard in particular to the incidence of school terms and periods of school closure."ConsultationPage 104, line 28, at end insert—moved Amendment No. A127C:
"experience suggests that the backing of the foundation can help strengthen a school's mission and ethos, and inject drive and dynamism into school leadership".685"to encourage foundation secondary schools to acquire foundations which will be able to appoint the majority of the governing body of the school",684Consultation as required by this Schedule shall be at such time and of such duration as may be required so as to ensure that persons wishing to respond to consultation shall have reasonable opportunity to do so having regard in particular to the incidence of school terms and periods of school closure."ConsultationPage 104, line 28, at end insert—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for that reply. As I pointed out, Schedule 10 speeds up the consultation process in regard to such issues as the establishment of foundation schools. Some would regard it as "fast-tracking" the route to foundation schools. I therefore took the opportunity to raise the issue of foundation schools, a subject to which we will return on Amendment No. 132ZA. It is an issue about which I feel strongly and I perhaps let my emotions carry me forward a little.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I am delighted that Members on the Conservative Benches support this measure to promote open government. Our main purpose in supporting the amendment is because we believe in openness and transparency in government. This is yet another instance where the Secretary of State will issue guidance and regulations. We feel strongly that such measures must be debated and made open to the public.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I shall leave my remarks at that. This is another example of where it would be very reasonable to set out in the schedule, which is not part of the Bill, the criteria for determining whether a case should be referred to the adjudicator. On occasion, the Secretary of State will require that. We want to know what criteria the Secretary of State will use in those circumstances.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
680: My name is also attached to the amendment. I wish to reinforce what the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, has said. This is another example of a tendency in the Bill, which I referred to earlier, to require the Secretary of State to issue guidance. In this case, the Secretary of State must
680Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: When we debated the Special Educational Needs and Disability Act, which effectively incorporated the inclusion agenda, we on these Benches constantly said to the Minister, "You are willing the ends but you are not willing the means". That is the problem. The responsibility is pushed down on to local authorities but local authorities have not been given the means to fulfil their responsibilities. One result of the financial provisions now being negotiated is that less and less money is available centrally for local authorities to fulfil their responsibilities under the special educational needs agenda, and that makes it more difficult for them to be responsible.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: It is odd that we have reached exclusions at this point. I do not wish to speak about the independent appeals panels in particular. I do not fully share the noble Baroness's doubts about them, although there have been glitches along the way. The issue of exclusions is one to which we shall return in Part 4. It is vital that we cope and ensure that the pupils involved receive an adequate education. The great danger with the Conservative Party's proposals is that you could end up with grandiose, but failing, schools. Can the Minister say more about how this matter fits into the Bill?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
695: I should like to go back to the issue of the city academies and the example of Hackney. I think that we touched on the issue earlier today. I believe that there are a number of proposals to establish city academies in Hackney. Inevitably, those will spill over to other education authorities. Particularly initially, city academies are often seen as very attractive to parents. Hackney is bordered by Islington, Newham and Tower Hamlets—a whole series of London boroughs. Attempts by those boroughs to cope with their own schools can be affected by proposals to establish academies.695Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"What is coming over already is the fact that, outside of the National Strategies, which I think should be classified as government change programmes rather than CPD, a lot of training and development in this country has become fragmented: teachers taking up bits and pieces rather than being directed to more targeted and sustained activities. If we let this go on, it will be a big waste. Research is categorical that, organised properly, training and development programmes give schools the best bangs for their bucks in terms of impact on school and improvement and pupil outcomes, better than reductions in class size, better than ICT initiatives, better even than the use of more classroom assistants. But if the training and development is in bits and pieces, research is equally clear that the effects simply disappear".722"we ought to raise our expectations significantly about every member of staff being engaged in continuous professional development within the fabric of every school day. This we have circled for years but have not yet achieved"."for example, the remit for continuing professional development of teachers is not about funding of such provision, because money for this is already in the school budgets""will require co-ordination work"."much of what the Government were expecting from the TTA"—"and other members of the school workforce"."to secure the involvement of schools in all courses and programmes for the initial and continuing professional development … of school teachers"."to improve the quality and efficiency of all routes into the school workforce".721Page 41, line 8, leave out "and efficiency"moved Amendment No. 132B:
"What is coming over already is the fact that, outside of the National Strategies, which I think should be classified as government change programmes rather than CPD, a lot of training and development in this country has become fragmented: teachers taking up bits and pieces rather than being directed to more targeted and sustained activities. If we let this go on, it will be a big waste. Research is categorical that, organised properly, training and development programmes give schools the best bangs for their bucks in terms of impact on school and improvement and pupil outcomes, better than reductions in class size, better than ICT initiatives, better even than the use of more classroom assistants. But if the training and development is in bits and pieces, research is equally clear that the effects simply disappear".722"we ought to raise our expectations significantly about every member of staff being engaged in continuous professional development within the fabric of every school day. This we have circled for years but have not yet achieved"."for example, the remit for continuing professional development of teachers is not about funding of such provision, because money for this is already in the school budgets""will require co-ordination work"."much of what the Government were expecting from the TTA"—"and other members of the school workforce"."to secure the involvement of schools in all courses and programmes for the initial and continuing professional development … of school teachers"."to improve the quality and efficiency of all routes into the school workforce".721Page 41, line 8, leave out "and efficiency"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
724: I thank the Minister for his reply. Taking the amendments I have tabled literally, the issues of quality and efficiency again raise the question of resources, a point I shall come back to in a moment.724Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I thank the Minister for his reply, but to some extent he gave his position away when he corrected himself. He started by saying that Parliament has already established a positive position and then corrected himself and said that the Government have already established a positive position on the matter. They have changed their position on foundation schools compared to the School Standards and Framework Act 1998. They have been able to do so by secondary legislation and they have, as the Minister rightly said, been consulting widely about the proposals to fast-track the establishment of foundation schools.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
Official Reportare community schools, the community of interest is the LEA, because there is that link between them. If a school wants to become voluntary aided or a foundation school, it will be for the school organisation committee to agree or disagree with that change of character. —[Official Reportthe Government took the view that while they —715"() In schedule 8 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (changes of category of school), in paragraph 2(2) after modifications insert except that in all cases the School Organisation Committee must approve of the change of category.Page 117, line 19, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 132ZA:
Official Reportare community schools, the community of interest is the LEA, because there is that link between them. If a school wants to become voluntary aided or a foundation school, it will be for the school organisation committee to agree or disagree with that change of character. —[Official Reportthe Government took the view that while they —715"() In schedule 8 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (changes of category of school), in paragraph 2(2) after modifications insert except that in all cases the School Organisation Committee must approve of the change of category.Page 117, line 19, at end insert—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
743: I have to confess that I have been caught slightly short on this one as I had not noticed that one of our amendments had been included in this group. In addition, I do not think that I have any briefing for Amendment No. 135A, which I believe came from the NSPCC.743Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"although recruitment to the learning and skills sector must follow a different model reflecting the diversity of the sector, there are many lessons to be learnt from the success in the school sector".Page 41, line 18, leave out from "schools" to end of line 20.moved Amendment No. 136A:
"although recruitment to the learning and skills sector must follow a different model reflecting the diversity of the sector, there are many lessons to be learnt from the success in the school sector".Page 41, line 18, leave out from "schools" to end of line 20.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: That was a good Conservative philosophy. I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, for her support for the general principle of the amendment but take issue with her about allowing good and popular schools to extend. We on these Benches believe fundamentally that where heads and governing bodies wish to expand their schools, they should be allowed to do so. As my noble friend Lord Lucas said, we welcome the provision of new schools and new providers and believe that these are the drivers of increasing standards. I thank the Minister for his detailed answer and look forward to receiving further information on the academies.Baroness Morris of Bolton
697696Sections 67 and 68 and Schedule 18 to the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) shall cease to have effect."After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 129:
697696Sections 67 and 68 and Schedule 18 to the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) shall cease to have effect."After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the noble Lord, Lord Livsey, for his support. Indeed, it was our colleagues in the Welsh Assembly who brought this matter to our attention. As the Minister so kindly pointed out, the deficiency of our drafting meant that he did not realise that the amendment covered Wales as well. I keep thinking that perhaps my school report at the end of this Committee stage will be, "Patricia could do better".Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister, as always, for her thoughtful reply. I also thank her for her indulgence in letting me put forward some Tory Party policies. I did that to pre-empt any questions that she may ask. She spoke of natural justice. Of course, there has to be natural justice. We see no reason why it cannot be done with a panel of governors, just as it is in the independent sector. The Minister also said that parents were in favour of appeals. I would not consider for a moment that they were not. The question is what kind of appeal?Baroness Morris of Bolton
701(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 130:
701(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of parents of registered children of that school.After Clause 69, insert the following new clause—Baroness Morris of Bolton
688687: Clause 66 introduces Schedule 11 which contains provision enabling the
688687Baroness Morris of Bolton
Hansard: I thank the Minister for his reply. I understand how a broader remit is sought. I am not sure how my amendment runs counter to that. However, I shall read in HansardBaroness Morris of Bolton
"may arrange for the report to be published in such manner as the Agency consider appropriate".The Agency shall produce an annual report that shall be laid by the Secretary of State before both Houses of Parliament for approval by affirmative resolution."After Clause 74, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 137:
"may arrange for the report to be published in such manner as the Agency consider appropriate".The Agency shall produce an annual report that shall be laid by the Secretary of State before both Houses of Parliament for approval by affirmative resolution."After Clause 74, insert the following new clause—Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for his clarification. I should like to talk in particular to people involved in FE. I understand what the noble Lord says. However, the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Livsey, is important. For the moment, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
749(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or
(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or(2) In considering the appointment of members in accordance with subsection (1) the Secretary of State shall have regard to the desirability of including persons whose relevant experience or responsibility is, or was. in or in relation to—
(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or
(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,"() In appointing the members of the agency the Secretary of State shall have regard to the desirability of including persons who appear to him—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,Page 41, line 35, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 136C:
749(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or
(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or(2) In considering the appointment of members in accordance with subsection (1) the Secretary of State shall have regard to the desirability of including persons whose relevant experience or responsibility is, or was. in or in relation to—
(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or
(b) teaching persons with special educational needs."(a) institutions of a denominational character, or(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,"() In appointing the members of the agency the Secretary of State shall have regard to the desirability of including persons who appear to him—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(b) to have held, and to have shown capacity in, any position carrying responsibility for—
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,
(iii) the training of teachers,(ii) the provision of higher education (other than the training of teachers), or(i) the provision of education in schools,(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,(a) to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in—
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,
(iii) training teachers, or(ii) teaching in higher education (other than training teachers), or(i) teaching in schools,Page 41, line 35, at end insert—Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for that reply. He gave a very similar response to an earlier amendment I pressed that sought affirmative resolution of a report, but I thought I would have another go. Again, I shall read with interest what he has said, although I take his point. Part of the impetus for the proposal was to seek greater visibility in the Bill.Baroness Morris of Bolton
I thank the Minister for that answer. I am very pleased because trust is at the basis of all this. As the Americans say, in decision-making you devolve power down to where the rubber meets the road. I look forward to seeing the Government's decisions. For the moment, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton:
754Page 119, line 30, leave out "for any purpose" and insert "fit in furtherance of any of the objectives set out in section 72(2)"moved Amendment No. 137B:
754Page 119, line 30, leave out "for any purpose" and insert "fit in furtherance of any of the objectives set out in section 72(2)"Baroness Morris of Bolton
Hansard: I thank the Minister for that full and detailed reply. It will pay to take some time to read and digest it in HansardBaroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for her full and detailed reply. I look forward to receiving further information. Meanwhile, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
758Page 42, line 25, leave out subsection (5).moved Amendment No. 138:
758Page 42, line 25, leave out subsection (5).Baroness Morris of Bolton
755I thank the noble Baroness for her reply. It is interesting that I chose football as an example, and she chose cricket. I think this is to do with growing up in the north-west, when councils would discuss everything and anything not to
755Baroness Morris of Bolton:
Page 42, line 10, leave out subsection (2).moved Amendment No. 137C:
Page 42, line 10, leave out subsection (2).Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp. The amendment seeks visibility and to ensure that this very important report from the TDA is located in a more accessible part of the Bill rather than being buried away. For the moment, however, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
Page 119, line 6, leave out sub-paragraph (4).moved Amendment No. 137A:
Page 119, line 6, leave out sub-paragraph (4).Baroness Morris of Bolton
767: In questioning that Clause 87 stand part of the Bill, we are again seeking more information in relation to the powers of the Assembly to impose under this clause.767Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the noble Baroness for her detailed reply. I think that I can now safely say "HEFCW". Perhaps we should have gone back to the draftsman of the 1994 Bill for clarification. I thank the Minister for those points.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, have the Government any plans to expand the number of public sector imported goods covered by Fairtrade standards, keeping in mind, too, a fairer free trade policy?Baroness Rawlings
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Can he explain to the taxpayers and the 13 universities that were involved why the NHS University, which was launched with enormous fanfare and given a vice-chancellor designate fewer than two years ago and has since then spent £50 million of taxpayers' money, been turned down for the title of university by the Privy Council and failed to gain an adequate number of students, has now, it seems, in the words of the noble Lord, Lord Warner, passed its sell-by date?Baroness Perry of Southwark
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, is it not a fact—Baroness Gardner of Parkes
642: I am sorry, my Lords, but I think it is my turn. I have been waiting a long time to speak. Is it not a fact that the proposal for an NHS University was included in the 2001 Labour Party manifesto for that general election? Is it not therefore
642Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, is the Minister aware—Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: I think it is our turn.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
647: My Lords, I expect that the Minister is aware of the very
647Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, my noble friend has taken two supplementary questions from the Opposition Benches and only one from these Benches.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, British passports are issued in the United Kingdom under Royal prerogative by the UK Passport Office. Citizenship is a matter of law, primarily under the British Nationality Act 1981, that is usually determined by the facts of a person's date and place of birth and those of their parents. Active service in Her Majesty's Armed Forces is not a factor usually taken into account when determining eligibility for a British passport.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that Answer. She will be aware that the noble and gallant Lord, Lord Craig of Radley, raised two examples of this problem in the debate on defence on Monday. On that occasion, the Minister did not have time to respond to them. I do not want to refer to individual cases other to say that the one which has caused most outrage recently has, I understand, now been satisfactorily settled. However, I note that the Government were reluctant even to answer questions from the person's Member of Parliament, until directed to do so by the Speaker. My point is that the rules need to be changed, so that active service in Her Majesty's Armed Forces is indeed a very good qualification for earning British citizenship.Lord Marlesford
772: My Lords, first, I reassure the noble Lord that Ministers have a grip on
772Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I am delighted that the Minister has spelt out the legal requirement for passports. Does the Secretary of State have any discretion in waiving the qualifying residential period when deciding the issue of British citizenship, which then leads to a British passport?Lord Dholakia
: No, my Lords. The rules apply equally, but the noble Lord should know that in the exercising of discretion about what will count, there can be variations. So, for example, we changed the rules so that those who serve in our Armed Forces, but who do not spend the whole of the period here in the United Kingdom, are given very advantageous terms, so that long periods spent outside this country would not count against them if they were serving this country's ends. For example, the five-year criterion would now be met if the person so serving spent one year in the United Kingdom. Those are very favourable terms.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, as a Member of this House who is not a British passport holder, I presume that the first criterion for gaining a British passport is to be a British citizen. Is that correct?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, the first thing is that you have to be settled here. You could then use the fact that you have been settled to obtain British citizenship, as the noble Baroness rightly said. Once you have got British citizenship, of course, you can then apply for a British passport.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I have listened carefully to what the Minister has to say, but does she not agree that there is a real problem with the way in which the Home Office deals with these sensitive issues?Baroness Seccombe
: My Lords, I do not agree with the noble Baroness. These issues are very sensitive and they have to be dealt with very carefully, but the noble Baroness must understand that they have to be dealt with equally. It is very difficult when various people are saying "We should do this, we should do that, we should change our rules". We have to be consistent. Of course we have to be flexible. I hope noble Lords have found that, in relation to these measures, we have amended the rules so that they are proportionate and very well applied.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
773: My Lords, can my noble friend assure me that if a national of a country who would have some difficulty in returning to that country
773Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: My Lords, I have to reiterate that we treat each application equally. It would be quite improper to favour one group above another. I can reassure the noble Lord that the circumstances of each individual case are of course taken into account in exercising any discretion that there may be in relation to any particular group.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the recent Pensions Act includes many changes which are designed to ensure good governance in pension schemes and which recognise the crucial role of lay trustees in managing those schemes. We have also been discussing with those organisations which currently run trustees' groups—NAPF, PMI, TUC—whether and how a standing trustees' forum could work actively further to promote and support lay trusteeship. We are considering how best to take this forward. My noble friend's Question is very apt.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that response. Does she not agree that it is very important that suitable people should be encouraged to come forward and take on this important function for their fellow employees? If there were a task force or something similar available for them, it would provide them with the necessary support in many instances—and possibly access to training—and give them the confidence to take on this important function.Baroness Turner of Camden
774: My Lords, I agree entirely with my noble friend. Whether one calls it a task force or a forum, it is the case that trustees in this country are managing something like £750 billion-worth of assets. Some trustees, particularly those in the smaller schemes, have had no training at all, even though they are hungry for it. We certainly want to encourage more training. We shall be issuing through the regulator codes of guidance to ensure that the appropriate knowledge
774Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, should not the training of trustees be mandatory rather than merely encouraged by the Government? The whole issue of trusteeship of pension schemes at this stage is so convoluted and difficult, even for people with financial acumen, that longer term—particularly in view of the amount of money that has been mentioned—there really ought to be some statutory obligation for proper training.Baroness O'Cathain
: My Lords, there are two reasons why we have not gone down that route so far. First, you cannot predict what background people come with—some may need no training at all; others may start from a very low knowledge base. Secondly, 90 per cent of companies with more than 1,000 members already offer training. Our problem is that of those schemes with fewer than 100 members, only 30 do so. In many cases the reason, of course, is that so far they have not had member-nominated trustees. The regulator will be issuing up to a dozen codes of guidance. There will be statutory codes of guidance—on which there will be consultation and which will be laid before Parliament—which will require trustees to exhibit appropriate knowledge and understanding. I believe that is the way forward.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, as there is clearly a serious shortage of competent trustees, can the Minister confirm that, contrary to reports in the press, the Government do not propose to impose a limit of nine-year terms on existing trustees—or, indeed, on future trustees—as this would certainly deprive the schemes of those with experience and expertise?Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I am not aware that there is a shortage of trustees willing to come forward. They have concerns about their knowledge and understanding, and sometimes they have concerns about their liability, but, from my experience—certainly with member-nominated trustees—I know that many very able people wish to come forward. Their problem sometimes is to get the training that they want at times that are convenient to them and so on.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, beyond that, will the noble Baroness assure us that this would not be a good idea? She may know that the private sector's box-ticking approach, whereby non-executive directors are regarded as non-independent and somehow polluted after nine years, is now being abandoned. Surely she can state clearly that that would be the wrong approach for pension fund trustees.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
775: My Lords, my understanding at the moment, unless the regulator
775Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, the Administration and Works Committee decided to rename the building as the name "Fielden House" had no particular connection to the House of Lords. The origin of the name is not certain, but the building was probably named after the developer who backed the project in the 1930s. The name "Abingdon House" is politically neutral and will assist visitors and others to find the building, located, as it is, just off Abingdon Green.The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for that Answer, and I congratulate whoever was responsible for the research that went into producing it. Might I suggest that it would be more appropriate in future were such changes to be the subject of a more open process and perhaps a degree of consultation? I also suggest that it might be appropriate to choose to name houses within the parliamentary domain after distinguished past parliamentarians. In that context, we might have suggested that that hugely distinguished parliamentarian, the radical 19th-century reformer who made an immense contribution to British national life, Mr John Fielden, would have been an appropriate choice.Lord Elder
"seldom ranged beyond the uninspiring realm of industrial statistics"."was not otherwise an impressive or effective MP",Dictionary of National Biography: My Lords, on the noble Lord's first point about having an open process, this decision was made unanimously—there was no argument, as I recall—within the Administration and Works Committee, which your Lordships have tasked with dealing with this kind of thing."seldom ranged beyond the uninspiring realm of industrial statistics"."was not otherwise an impressive or effective MP",Dictionary of National BiographyThe Chairman of Committees
776: My Lords, I suggest to the noble Lord that there is another connection between this House and Fielden House in as much as the property was owned by the Church of England and
776The Lord Bishop of Chester
: My Lords, the right reverend Prelate refers only to the last occupants of Fielden House. When it was first built in 1937, it was occupied by the London Midland and Scottish Railway, so perhaps it should be named after a prominent railway person. It then became the Scottish Office, as it then was, between approximately 1940 and 1955, so no doubt various Secretaries of State for Scotland—if that is what they were called in those days—might have liked it to be named after them. Since then, until we bought it in 2001, as the right reverend Prelate said, it was leased to the Church Commissioners.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, does the noble Lord agree that it seemed to those of us on the committee entirely appropriate that the house should be renamed, when it came into House of Lords occupancy, after the Earl of Abingdon. He had a house approximately there and the green is named after him. Abingdon House is a very welcome addition to the accommodation available to your Lordships and their staff, and we appreciate it very much indeed. We are very grateful to the Church of England for being willing to sell it at an appropriate price.Lord Cope of Berkeley
: My Lords, the noble Lord the Opposition Chief Whip is absolutely right. Abingdon was a distinguished person; both the green and the street were named after him in 1750, after the road was widened and improved. The Earl of Abingdon's residence stood on the site around 1700.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, could not the noble Lord be a little more generous to Sir John Fielden? He hailed from Todmorden, just down the Calder Valley from me. It seems to me that someone who introduced the Ten Hours Act 1850 demands a little more attention and consideration than that which the noble Lord has given. I have to say that I would have stuck with the name—I understood what it meant.Lord Shutt of Greetland
777Dictionary of National Biography: My Lords, when I spoke about John Fielden MP I made it clear that I was quoting from the 777Dictionary of National BiographyThe Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, in the context of the explanation given by noble Lord the Chairman of Committees of what underlay the connection with Abingdon Green, is he aware that the winner of the architectural competition to redesign this palace after the Great Fire of 1834—Mr Charles Barry—was born in Bridge Street, across the road from the Houses of Parliament? Therefore, the principle of propinquity has a good pedigree on the parliamentary estate.Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
: My Lords, I am sure that the noble Lord is right. As a matter of interest, as noble Lords have mentioned the practice of changing names of buildings during their history, the Scottish Office was housed in Fielden House—or Abingdon House as it now is—between 1940 and 1955. It then changed to Dover House, which was the third name that that building had had, having originally been called Melbourne House, then York House and then Dover House since 1831.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, I am sure that the Chairman of Committees would want my appreciation. We have gone from the situation when I was introduced in 1998 and for two years had no office and no desk to that which applies now, which is so different. Will he agree with me that we should put on record our appreciation to all the staff, who made the move so smooth, shifted all our numerous papers, connected our computers and provided tremendous artworks on the wall to boot?Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness, and I am sure that the many members of staff involved in the move and in the process of refurbishment of Abingdon House will be much appreciative of what she has said. The noble Baroness mentioned the artworks, which have been very well received. The Works of Art Committee purchased 22 original travel posters, which noble Lords may have seen exhibited in the Royal Gallery before Christmas. I have further good news in that Shell has kindly donated a further 20 reproductions of its 1930s posters, for which we shall also find a place.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, while welcoming the addition to the accommodation as a user of it and having no objection to the change of name, I must ask the noble Lord the Chairman of Committees whether he will get up on his stepladder and change the name above the door, which still says Fielden House.Lord Armstrong of Ilminster
778: Yes, my Lords, that will happen—but sorry, no, I will not get up on a stepladder and change the name; somebody else will. The point is that we have had to make an application
778The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, since the tsunami struck, British officials and police teams have worked tirelessly in support of UK victims and relatives. The Government are immensely grateful to all those who have devoted themselves to the biggest consular operation that we have ever mounted. In the light of this tragedy, there are a number of issues relating to our emergency response which we shall need to look at again—and we shall do so.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that response, and congratulate all the people who have worked so tirelessly in helping those who have lost family and friends in this terrible disaster. However, I am sure that the Government are aware that very many of the survivors and families feel very let down by the performance of the Diplomatic Service both in Thailand and the UK. It is clear that communications, particularly initially, were totally inadequate. Even today, we have only one pathologist and one dental expert in Thailand. Will the Government institute an inquiry, report back on the performance of the Diplomatic Service and make a public response as soon as possible?Lord Laidlaw
: My Lords, of course we shall look into such criticisms very carefully. People suffering in these terrible circumstances deserve the very best help that should be given to them. I am confident that in the majority of cases, the very best help was given and is indeed being given as we speak. The Foreign Office and police are working hard to get British victims who have already been informally identified home as soon as possible. They are also fully involved in the international efforts led by the Thai and other governments to identify all remaining victims.Baroness Crawley
779: My Lords, does my noble friend appreciate the uncertainty surrounding relatives of the deceased persons, victims of the earthquake as well as
779Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, the Government do appreciate the uncertainty to which my noble friend referred. In making progress on the legal status of those missing in the tsunami, we see that as a priority for the families and the Government. We are working very hard to resolve the issue. As a matter of urgency, the Foreign Office, the Home Office, the Department for Constitutional Affairs and the police are working to clarify the legal status. I hope that we shall be able to make an announcement on that in the next few days.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the first reply that the noble Baroness gave to my noble friend Lord Laidlaw is a little worrying in the sense that there has been very widespread criticism and unfavourable comparisons with the apparently more efficient operations of the German, French, Swedish and Japanese foreign offices, and others. Clearly there are some very important lessons to learn here, in case, God help us, we ever face such a tragedy again. Will she assure us that there will be a very stringent look at what went wrong and how it can be put right?Lord Howell of Guildford
780: My Lords, as I said, this matter is very much under investigation and an announcement will be made shortly.780Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, having experienced the events in Thailand, I beg to disagree with some of the points made by the Minister. On the ground it did not feel as if there were an immediate response.Baroness Falkner of Margravine
: My Lords, in answer to that final question, local teams already exist. But I shall write to the noble Baroness if I need to develop that. As far as deployment is concerned, the ambassador and his staff in the areas were deployed immediately; there was no wait of the number of days that the noble Baroness referred to. Of course, I respect her view because she was there at the time. I am giving the House the overall point of view and the statistics that we have.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, in the spirit of learning lessons from what must have been an overwhelming experience for everybody involved, would the Minister be willing to look at the Foreign Office helpline to which she has referred? A neighbour of mine had a son in Thailand and spent two days trying to get through and never succeeded. I appreciate that this was an unprecedented emergency, but will she look at the Foreign Office helpline?Lord Laming
: My Lords, we will certainly look at that as part of the lessons learnt. I would remind noble Lords that some members of the public were using the emergency number not to report friends and relatives in the area but to ask for information about travel advice and where to send donations. That clogged up the telephone helpline.Baroness Crawley
852: My Lords, I remind the House that I chair the All-Party Group on Penal Affairs. I congratulate the noble Baroness on introducing the debate. I apologise for the flamboyancy of the tie I am wearing, but it is in the good cause of publicising bowel cancer. I know that other noble Lords have them around their necks as well.852Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
853: My Lords, I join in thanking the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, for raising this issue; and, in view of the imminent publication of a related government consultation paper, I congratulate her on her good timing in doing so today.853The Earl of Dundee
854: My Lords, I, too, thank my noble friend Lady Stern for initiating this debate on the work, role and function of Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Prisons, and for doing it so clearly and effectively. I fully endorse her reasons for initiating this debate and the questions which she has posed to the Minister.854Baroness Prashar
856855: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, is by common consent the chief inspector of our consciences in relation to the subject of prisons and I am very grateful to her for being that. It cannot be anything other than a lonely position to
856855The Lord Bishop of Worcester
858"[It] was holding far too many young people, in unmanageably large units, to be able to provide a safe environment".Guardian857: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, for raising this important question about the independence of the prison inspectorate. I have just completed a period as the chair of the British Council and in that role I had the opportunity of visiting quite a number of prisons around the world. What becomes clear as one sees other institutional arrangements is just how precious our own inspectorate is. It really is one of the great British triumphs.858"[It] was holding far too many young people, in unmanageably large units, to be able to provide a safe environment".Guardian857Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
859: My Lords, I too thank my noble friend Lady Stern for securing this debate and for inviting me to participate in it.859Lord Chan
861860: My Lords, there are few Members of this House who can speak with more authority on a matter of this kind than the noble Baroness, Lady Stern. Her extraordinarily effective period as the leader of NACRO and all she has done since, gives her the kind of experience and insight which should be at a premium. I am sure that the Minister will have listened very carefully to all that she said.861860Lord Judd
862: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lady Stern for her timely Question. For many years I was a member of a board of visitors—now called independent monitoring boards—at a young offender institution. The appalling situation of the racial incidents at Feltham young offender institution has sickened me and is one of the many reasons why the robustly independent voice of prison inspectors should not be endangered with plans to create a merged inspection team, covering the whole criminal justice system. To put a racist skinhead with a history of violence alone in a cell with an Asian inmate seems more than unwise and for prison officers to handcuff a young man and smear him in boot polish is bullying of the first order.862Baroness Masham of Ilton
Official Report"The Government will consult early in the new year on more coherent arrangements for the end to end inspection of the criminal justice system. There is recognition of the need for inspection to better reflect the way services are delivered and to ensure a user perspective is properly built into the process".—[Official Report"what assessment has been made of the possible merits of a merger between the inspectorates of constabulary, prisons and probation?".Official Report"the chief inspector does an excellent job".—[Official Report"an independent and authoritative check".863"The committee went on to recommend that the Chief Inspector be a Crown appointment answering directly the Home Secretary with a small staff of appropriate experience, and proposed that their reports be published"."Thus in paragraph 5.61 of their report the Committee concluded 'we have no doubt both that the Prison Service would benefit from and that public sentiment requires that … the Prison Service should be opened up to as wide an audience as possible. We therefore think that there should be a system of inspection of the Prison Service which … should be distanced from it as far as may be practicable'"."an independent and authoritative check"."The Chief Inspector was a member of the Prisons Board and inspections were therefore performed as a management task with correspondingly limited terms of reference, and reports were presented to the Board: they were not published. May saw a need to separate the inspectorial from the management function and to promote openness, as the means of providing an independent and authoritative check on the work that the Prison Service did on behalf of the public".: My Lords, I too congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, on asking this key question. It gives me enormous pleasure to pay special tribute to my noble friend Lord Merlyn-Rees, for he is the ultimate forefather of the Chief Inspector of Prisons and the prisons inspectorate. It was he who, in November 1978, set up the May committee of inquiry into the organisation of the Prison Service. The May committee reported after the general election of 1979, and in April 1980 the Conservative Home Secretary, Mr William Whitelaw, accepted its recommendations for an inspectorate of prisons. He later announced the appointment of the first HM Chief Inspector of Prisons.Official Report"The Government will consult early in the new year on more coherent arrangements for the end to end inspection of the criminal justice system. There is recognition of the need for inspection to better reflect the way services are delivered and to ensure a user perspective is properly built into the process".—[Official Report"what assessment has been made of the possible merits of a merger between the inspectorates of constabulary, prisons and probation?".Official Report"the chief inspector does an excellent job".—[Official Report"an independent and authoritative check".863"The committee went on to recommend that the Chief Inspector be a Crown appointment answering directly the Home Secretary with a small staff of appropriate experience, and proposed that their reports be published"."Thus in paragraph 5.61 of their report the Committee concluded 'we have no doubt both that the Prison Service would benefit from and that public sentiment requires that … the Prison Service should be opened up to as wide an audience as possible. We therefore think that there should be a system of inspection of the Prison Service which … should be distanced from it as far as may be practicable'"."an independent and authoritative check"."The Chief Inspector was a member of the Prisons Board and inspections were therefore performed as a management task with correspondingly limited terms of reference, and reports were presented to the Board: they were not published. May saw a need to separate the inspectorial from the management function and to promote openness, as the means of providing an independent and authoritative check on the work that the Prison Service did on behalf of the public".Lord Acton
"the way services are delivered".864: My Lords, I hope that I may be permitted to intervene briefly in the gap. I have two reasons for wanting to do so."the way services are delivered".864Lord Mayhew of Twysden
866865: My Lords, I add my thanks to the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, for this important debate. Noble Lords are right to compliment her. She is renowned not only here, but internationally, for some very important work on prison reform. Two years ago I went to Kyrgyzstan, right on the border of China, and in a remote place asked to visit a particular prison, thinking that I would probably be the first westerner ever to set my foot in that prison. Alas, I was told that the noble Baroness had already been there.866865Lord Dholakia
"This is welcome; but it will nevertheless be important to examine any proposed changes to ensure that they fully reflect these principles, protect independence and provide a more effective, rather than simply a more expedient structure".868867Prison-Gate: My Lords, the House must be grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, for initiating this debate—bringing, as she does, unrivalled experience of the subject."This is welcome; but it will nevertheless be important to examine any proposed changes to ensure that they fully reflect these principles, protect independence and provide a more effective, rather than simply a more expedient structure".868867Prison-GateViscount Bridgeman
872871870869: My Lords, I add my congratulations to the noble Baroness, Lady Stern, on initiating this debate. The right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Worcester rightly said of her that she is the chief inspector of our conscience in relation to this matter. Having heard the several contributions to this debate, she has a number of able deputies; and the noble Lord, Lord Dholakia, even has aspirations for her pre-eminent place.872871870869Baroness Scotland of Asthal
836: My Lords, it is with great trepidation that I rise among a distinguished group of speakers. I do so as a farmer and the unpaid president of the British Association for Biofuels and Oils, more commonly called BABFO. For years I have been concerned about all our energy supplies, most especially where fossil fuels are concerned. I, too, am grateful to my noble friend for his excellent introduction to the subject. I am a new recruit to his loyal band of followers on their annual outing, although I did have my trials and tribulation during the passing of the Energy Bill. As by far the youngest member of tonight's band, I have become more and more depressed as speaker after speaker has warned of the dangers we are likely to face in future.836Lord Palmer.
797A Fresh Start796795: My Lords, perhaps whoever did the calculation did not do mathematics at school. I also thank the noble Lord, Lord Peston, for introducing the subject, which is of enormous importance. I have a personal reason for thanking him. A little more than 50 years ago, I was teaching mathematics at the London School of Economics, and one of the more promising students in my classes was young Maurice Peston. I feel now that I did not totally waste my time.797A Fresh Start796795Lord Moser
847846845844843842: My Lords, I am very grateful that the opportunity has fallen to me to reply to this debate, notwithstanding the difficulties and criticisms that have been raised. It has again shown the depth of experience and expertise in the energy field that resides in this House. It is an experience and expertise which I do not have in the sense that some noble Lords do. I therefore start by thanking the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, for continuing to instigate vital debates on this matter. I was about to say "long may he continue to do so", but he may not want to be doomed to do so very frequently.847846845844843842Lord Triesman
802"the failure of the current curriculum, assessment and qualifications framework in England, Wales and Northern Ireland to meet the needs of many learners and to satisfy the requirements and expectations of employers and higher education institutions".801Making Mathematics CountMaking Mathematics Counten passant: My Lords, when I was a schoolboy, I was very bad at reading and writing. Frankly, I am not very good at them now. For me, the word processor and the spell check have been a salvation. However, I was good at sums. I did sums, pursued them and was introduced to the wonderful world of mathematics, which, if you have not been there, is almost impossible to describe: the magic of algebra, the fascination of trigonometry and geometry, the understanding of rate of change and, in Newton's words, the "summation of infinitesimals".802"the failure of the current curriculum, assessment and qualifications framework in England, Wales and Northern Ireland to meet the needs of many learners and to satisfy the requirements and expectations of employers and higher education institutions".801Making Mathematics CountMaking Mathematics Counten passantLord Tunnicliffe
830829: My Lords, as we know, this is the third annual debate initiated by the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, on the need for a strategy for electricity. The noble Lord is building up a small band of devoted followers who have reappeared on each of these three occasions. I very much hope that he will persist with this annual event, but the trouble so far is that these debates have inevitably tended to be rather repetitive, because very little has changed. Let us hope that in years four, five and six when he introduces further annual debates we will have a more positive view before us.830829Lord Ezra
822222821820"over a 40 day period. This would have to be provided through a combination of interruption contracts and other demand-side arrangements developed between suppliers and customers"."under such conditions the market will need to deliver a response of around 2.4 bcm over the winter period to maintain a balance. This would be equivalent to the cessation of gas consumption for approximately 25% of all non-domestic demand"—"Decline of UK CS [Continental Shelf] gas supplies is occurring faster than previously forecast. A consolidation of industry data suggests a beach gas availability of 346 mcm/d for a sustained period over the coming winter".819: rose to call attention to the problems in the electricity supply industry created by the absence of a strategic decision mechanism; and to move for Papers.822222821820"over a 40 day period. This would have to be provided through a combination of interruption contracts and other demand-side arrangements developed between suppliers and customers"."under such conditions the market will need to deliver a response of around 2.4 bcm over the winter period to maintain a balance. This would be equivalent to the cessation of gas consumption for approximately 25% of all non-domestic demand"—"Decline of UK CS [Continental Shelf] gas supplies is occurring faster than previously forecast. A consolidation of industry data suggests a beach gas availability of 346 mcm/d for a sustained period over the coming winter".819Lord Tombs
848: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply, which, as he would expect, has disappointed me somewhat. However, I recognise that he has done his best to lend an air of coherence to an essentially incoherent policy. I recognise the need for that in the present circumstances.848Lord Tombs
"revised form of SSCSS [Secondary Schools Curriculum and Staffing Survey], requiring a mandatory response …should be designed and undertaken as soon as possible.794"recommends that the work of the National Numeracy Strategy … be continued and built upon, and that resources for mathematics are ring-fenced","National and Regional Support Infrastructure,"The Supply of Teachers of Mathematics.793"The introduction of numeracy hour into primary schools may have damaged children's long-term understanding of maths".792"The Inquiry regards it as vital that society fully recognises the importance of mathematics; its importance for its own sake, as an intellectual discipline; for the knowledge economy; for science, technology and engineering".Making Mathematics Count: I am delighted to congratulate my noble friend Lord Peston on introducing this debate and moving the Motion, which is not, incidentally, on pure mathematics. It is on mathematics which, in my experience, most people think of as pure arithmetic rather than pure maths. In fact, in my studies for an accountancy qualification, pure mathematics never entered into it. Equally, as Chief Secretary to the Treasury, in my experience pure maths never entered into anything—I see a former Permanent Secretary who can perhaps confirm that. Arithmetic may just about have entered into my work as Chief Secretary over the years."revised form of SSCSS [Secondary Schools Curriculum and Staffing Survey], requiring a mandatory response …should be designed and undertaken as soon as possible.794"recommends that the work of the National Numeracy Strategy … be continued and built upon, and that resources for mathematics are ring-fenced","National and Regional Support Infrastructure,"The Supply of Teachers of Mathematics.793"The introduction of numeracy hour into primary schools may have damaged children's long-term understanding of maths".792"The Inquiry regards it as vital that society fully recognises the importance of mathematics; its importance for its own sake, as an intellectual discipline; for the knowledge economy; for science, technology and engineering".Making Mathematics CountLord Barnett
824823"absence of a strategic decision mechanism": My Lords, I am sure that I speak on behalf of all noble Lords in expressing my gratitude to the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, not only for the persistence with which he has addressed this problem over the years but also for initiating this debate today.824823"absence of a strategic decision mechanism"Lord Tomlinson
838"We found almost no one outside Government who believed that the White Paper targets were likely to be achieved"."We could not avoid the conclusion that the Government are not taking energy problems sufficiently seriously. We could find no one … whose responsibility it was to ensure continuity of supply"."review the allocation within Government of responsibility for energy policy, with a view to providing strong and coherent leadership".837: My Lords, I join other noble Lords in thanking the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, for securing this evening's debate, in view of the important decisions which must be taken on the security of our energy supplies.838"We found almost no one outside Government who believed that the White Paper targets were likely to be achieved"."We could not avoid the conclusion that the Government are not taking energy problems sufficiently seriously. We could find no one … whose responsibility it was to ensure continuity of supply"."review the allocation within Government of responsibility for energy policy, with a view to providing strong and coherent leadership".837Lord Willoughby de Broke
818: My Lords, in the few moments that we have left, I shall rectify a gap in my speech. This point was in my speaking notes, but I decided not to mention it in the hope that another noble Lord would do so. Professor Smith's recommendation 2.6 was that consideration should be given to the introduction of new mathematics teacher certification schemes, with the aim of increasing the overall supply of teachers appropriately qualified to teach at least some part of the curriculum. That struck me as an exceptionally good recommendation and, since no other noble Lord has underlined it, I shall just draw it again to my noble friend the Minister's attention.818Lord Peston
783782Making Mathematics Countrose to call attention to the state of mathematics teaching in schools; and to move for Papers.783782Making Mathematics CountLord Peston
"no nuclear or fossil-fuelled capacity expansion (above British Energy's current capacity) by the company in the European Economic Area for six years, and no hydro-electric capacity expansion".828Official Report"when you run out of cash you are not in a position to demand whatever terms you want".—[Official Report827Electricity JournalWill the New Electricity Trading Arrangements Ensure Generation Adequacy?"Will the market ensure future security of supply?""ensuring that there is continuity of supply"?826"Ofgem has important statutory duties relating to security of supply, which inform everything it does; the Secretary of State has ultimate responsibility for energy policy"."We do not accept the Committee's assertion that there is no one at the executive level with responsibility for ensuring that there is continuity of supply. Both the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry and Ofgem have responsibility for the long-term security of supply"."I give the straightforward undertaking that I will ensure that there is proper discussion regarding how to make sure that it is widely available and discussed in the media.Official Report"what is being done to draw the attention of the media"—[Official Report: My Lords, I certainly share with the noble Lord, Tomlinson, our gratitude to the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, for once again bringing this very important subject to the attention of the House. I say in relation to the speech which we have just heard that it really is a very powerful indictment of the policy which the Government are seeking to put forward. The noble Lord, Lord Tomlinson, suggested that he might be persuaded—I believe that we understand the language that he will require a very great deal to be persuaded—that they are on the right course."no nuclear or fossil-fuelled capacity expansion (above British Energy's current capacity) by the company in the European Economic Area for six years, and no hydro-electric capacity expansion".828Official Report"when you run out of cash you are not in a position to demand whatever terms you want".—[Official Report827Electricity JournalWill the New Electricity Trading Arrangements Ensure Generation Adequacy?"Will the market ensure future security of supply?""ensuring that there is continuity of supply"?826"Ofgem has important statutory duties relating to security of supply, which inform everything it does; the Secretary of State has ultimate responsibility for energy policy"."We do not accept the Committee's assertion that there is no one at the executive level with responsibility for ensuring that there is continuity of supply. Both the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry and Ofgem have responsibility for the long-term security of supply"."I give the straightforward undertaking that I will ensure that there is proper discussion regarding how to make sure that it is widely available and discussed in the media.Official Report"what is being done to draw the attention of the media"—[Official ReportLord Jenkin of Roding
811810Financial Times809808: My Lords, I too congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Peston, on securing this important and timely debate. I welcome the opportunity to contribute from this Bench. The tremendous and learned contributions that we have heard today show the enormous value and expertise of this House. We could not have had a better debate on the problems of mathematics.811810Financial Times809808Lord Hanningfield
786785In Code784Times: My Lords, it is a great honour to follow the noble Lord, Lord Peston, who I have admired for many years, albeit from a distance. I am very glad that he has chosen to raise this subject in debate.786785In Code784TimesLord Lucas
2834: My Lords, I enter this series of debates, promoted by the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, with considerable trepidation. The debates have been going on for a number of years, and this is the first in which I have sought to take part. I want to talk about the subject from a slightly different perspective.2834Lord Dixon-Smith
835: My Lords, I apologise to the noble Lord if I tightened his remarks, but I am afraid that I was trying to say what he has just said in a much more brief way. If that was inaccurate, I apologise.835Lord Dixon-Smith
788787"in many respects [mathematics] is 'special' and that we must be prepared to consider, particularly in terms of organisation, structures, and investment, that different approaches and prioritisation may be required for mathematics": My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, has prompted me to consider for myself what use one is making of one's adventures into perhaps the higher realms of mathematics. In my case it is the probability theory from time to time just to see what the chances are of this or that. One makes use of that. One almost wants to turn to a blackboard, which is not there, when one is thinking about these things.788787"in many respects [mathematics] is 'special' and that we must be prepared to consider, particularly in terms of organisation, structures, and investment, that different approaches and prioritisation may be required for mathematics"Lord Sheldon
805804803: My Lords, I apologise for being absent from the Chamber during three of the speeches, but I am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Peston, for introducing this subject. I can think of no subject that is in greater crisis or where there are more grounds for concern than in mathematics.805804803Lord Dearing
: My Lords, will the noble Lord allow me to correct a remark that he attributed to me? I think I said not that we must obediently disregard Kyoto, but that we should apply it with some caution. My argument at the moment is that that is not being done. It is being taken as something engraved in tablets of stone, and we have to get on with it and think of something else. Maybe we do, but we have rather more flexibility than he suggests.Lord Bridges
83322832"and the wind bloweth when it listeth"."The wind bloweth where it listeth",: My Lords, the general direction of my remarks will be not dissimilar from that of previous speakers, although the content will be rather different. In particular, I shall say more about wind than we have heard so far.83322832"and the wind bloweth when it listeth"."The wind bloweth where it listeth",Lord Bridges
800799798: My Lords, I welcome this debate, initiated by my noble friend Lord Peston, as it raises important issues for our time. Any debate about education could be fully absorbed into the wider issues of the fundamental purpose of education policy: how much it should be about encouraging and empowering individuals to develop, to learn about learning, to become citizens in an increasingly complex and diverse society, to develop values and reference points and to experience achievement and fulfilment. That debate could be about the narrower issues of education associated with specific attainment and with acquiring skills and knowledge for employment.800799798Lord McKenzie of Luton
791790789: My Lords, I hope that in the wind-up speech we shall hear a great deal about how the Government are taking the recommendations of the Smith report further. It is an extremely valuable and highly detailed report and it makes some important recommendations. I shall touch on some of
791790789Lord Wallace of Saltaire
Official Report"the role of the Government is to provide a co-ordinated and coherent framework in which the decisions are made by private industry".—[Official Report841Official Report"They seem to have been successful in increasing competition and reducing wholesale prices".—[Official Report"not a breach of the National Grid Company's licence, its wider conclusions do not give the company a clean bill of health over the blackouts … and there are … important lessons for the company to learn".8402"Electricity cannot be stored. The amount produced each instant must equal the amount being demanded … or the system will collapse".Power UK839HansardDaily Telegraph: My Lords, we are all indebted to the noble Lord, Lord Tombs, not only for having secured today's debate but for his tenacity in constantly returning to push everyone into considering these matters—having brought them to our attention, not just this January, but last January and the January before. It is a great pity that his concerns over the subject, which so many of us share, do not receive the publicity that they deserve.Official Report"the role of the Government is to provide a co-ordinated and coherent framework in which the decisions are made by private industry".—[Official Report841Official Report"They seem to have been successful in increasing competition and reducing wholesale prices".—[Official Report"not a breach of the National Grid Company's licence, its wider conclusions do not give the company a clean bill of health over the blackouts … and there are … important lessons for the company to learn".8402"Electricity cannot be stored. The amount produced each instant must equal the amount being demanded … or the system will collapse".Power UK839HansardDaily TelegraphBaroness Miller of Hendon
817816815**: My Lords, I know that the National Association of Mathematicians has made that criticism. While the extension programme is very new, that is possibly true, but we are seeing a transfer of technique and content into the mainstream curriculum from many of these programmes. I should have thought that that was very likely, but I will certainly give it some further thought.817816815**Baroness Andrews
814813"The failures in arithmetic are mainly due to the scarcity of good teachers".812par excellence sitting: My Lords, this is a maths debate so I shall try to give some answers. It has been a hugely enjoyable debate. It goes to show that maths can be fun, a theme that has run throughout the debate. I am indebted to my noble friend Lord Peston. I am glad that he has realised what has clearly been a long desire to have such a debate—quite rightly so—and I am sure that it has lived up to his expectations. It has been extremely good.814813"The failures in arithmetic are mainly due to the scarcity of good teachers".812par excellence sittingBaroness Andrews
: My Lords, I draw noble Lords' attention to the fact that there has been a miscalculation in the allocation of time for this debate. We are actually five minutes short, so no one must overrun their time.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, will the noble Baroness comment on the fact that for these more gifted children at key stage 3, that is not assessed within the curriculum? The curriculum is being developed to have, in effect, a further maths element—an extension element—but because it is not being assessed, it is not carried through in all schools and, to some extent, the children themselves write it off.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"It is a serious mistake to imagine that there is some part of mathematics which relates to the real world which does not require a theoretical or conceptual underpinning. The constant difficulty that many students have in handling simple ideas with number is at least as much to do with a lack of conceptual understanding and a suitable level of fluency as it is to do with a failure to see any 'real world' purpose for the ideas".807"may not be the best vehicle to improve teacher performance, since the outcome of interest—pupil achievements—is multi-dimensional and depends on the efforts of a group of teachers rather than individuals. Evidence from elsewhere in the world tends not to support PRP schemes. In fact, over time, most schemes for teachers have collapsed and there is evidence that the ability of PRP to motivate staff is limited"."Now the shortage of teachers looks set to become even more of a problem as large numbers of people currently in the profession near retirement. Shortages are especially acute in subjects like maths, science".806"Mathematics is of central importance to modern society. It provides the language and analytical tools underpinning much of our scientific and industrial research and development. Mathematical concepts, models and techniques are also key to many vital areas of the knowledge economy, including the finance and ICT industries. Mathematics is crucially important, too, for the employment opportunities and achievements of individual citizens".: My Lords, I should like to join others in thanking the noble Lord, Lord Peston, for initiating this debate. He and I have long tried to contrive to secure a debate on the Smith report. I am delighted that we finally have."It is a serious mistake to imagine that there is some part of mathematics which relates to the real world which does not require a theoretical or conceptual underpinning. The constant difficulty that many students have in handling simple ideas with number is at least as much to do with a lack of conceptual understanding and a suitable level of fluency as it is to do with a failure to see any 'real world' purpose for the ideas".807"may not be the best vehicle to improve teacher performance, since the outcome of interest—pupil achievements—is multi-dimensional and depends on the efforts of a group of teachers rather than individuals. Evidence from elsewhere in the world tends not to support PRP schemes. In fact, over time, most schemes for teachers have collapsed and there is evidence that the ability of PRP to motivate staff is limited"."Now the shortage of teachers looks set to become even more of a problem as large numbers of people currently in the profession near retirement. Shortages are especially acute in subjects like maths, science".806"Mathematics is of central importance to modern society. It provides the language and analytical tools underpinning much of our scientific and industrial research and development. Mathematical concepts, models and techniques are also key to many vital areas of the knowledge economy, including the finance and ICT industries. Mathematics is crucially important, too, for the employment opportunities and achievements of individual citizens".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, the Government's longstanding policy has been not to encourage tourism to Burma. Human rights violations have continuously been highlighted in international fora. For as long as those violations take place we would urge anyone who may be thinking of visiting Burma on holiday to consider carefully whether by their actions they are helping to support the regime and prolong such terrible abuses.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend very much for that welcome and robust reply. She will be aware that Aung San Suu Kyi has specifically asked that British tourists stay away from Burma until human rights have been restored and an elected Parliament put in place. But does my noble friend not find it depressing that—notwithstanding the appeals from Ministers and the Burma Campaign—there are still a number of British tour operators which continue to offer holidays in Burma, a country that spends half of its budget on defence and only 19p on the health of each of its citizens?Lord Faulkner of Worcester
874: My Lords, my noble friend is aware, because of his longstanding interest in Burma, that the Government continually speak to travel companies and travel agents and make very clear our strong policy on the human rights situation in Burma. On the FCO website, there are letters from Ministers to the travel agencies. Most recently, on 18 October, Mr Alexander wrote to the chief executive of Reed
874Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, first, will the noble Baroness seek to harmonise the advice that we give to our visitors to Burma with that given by the Americans? We say that visitors may be imprisoned for criticising the regime in public, whereas the Americans point out that anyone distributing pro-democracy literature, taking photographs of sensitive sites, or visiting the offices and homes of pro-democracy leaders may be liable to imprisonment.Lord Avebury
: My Lords, on the second matter raised by the noble Lord, we will write about the details of this pro-democracy group committee. If observers are invited to the convention we would look very carefully at those invitations. Our policy is still under review. I will, of course, write to the noble Lord when the policy on observation of the convention is completed.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, does the noble Baroness agree that Burma is an outpost of tyranny, as Condoleezza Rice described it yesterday, and that maintaining sanctions and constant economic pressures on the regime, as the noble Lord. Lord Faulkner, suggests, is one of the right approaches?Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords. I could not put it better.Baroness Crawley
875: My Lords, does the noble Baroness agree that while severe poverty continues in
875The Earl of Sandwich
: Yes, my Lords. The condition, of course, is always the safety and security of NGOs on the ground. But the Government encourage and support many NGOs working in Burma and, through DfID, are one of Europe's most important donor countries.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, while welcoming the Government's robust position on Burma, does my noble friend agree that one of the difficulties is that some of the countries in the region are not as robust and are not as willing to oppose what the Burmese Government have been doing as we would like? Can my noble friend say anything about that? I am thinking of the ASEAN countries in particular.Lord Dubs
: My Lords, my noble friend is right. We regularly raise our concerns about Burma with our ASEAN partners and encourage them to press more for improvement in Burma's human rights record. We believe that all Burma's regional neighbours have an important role to play in encouraging substantive change in Burma.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, we acknowledge the concerns expressed by the BMA but we are acting to secure a strong academic base in medical education and research. We are supporting implementation of the new consultant contract for clinical academics with investments of an extra £15 million this year and nearly £18 million extra next year. Since 1997 there has been a 30 per cent increase in NHS consultants with honorary contracts undertaking teaching and research.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Does he agree that the situation in clinical academic medicine is potentially very serious indeed? The most recent survey shows that there has been a 23 per cent reduction in junior academic staff in the past three years and an increase in vacant professorial posts at a time when, as he said, medical student numbers are projected to rise by 40 per cent? Will the Minister undertake to keep under continual review the incentives that exist for attracting young doctors as potential academics and make sure that the new contracts and the new career structures are properly implemented and evaluated?Earl Howe
: My Lords, the noble Earl is right in some ways but I do not accept that good progress is not being made. The figures I gave on medical student intake do not suggest that medical schools are in crisis. We need to work with the initiative being led by Dr Mark Walport of the Wellcome Trust on improving the pathways for younger doctors to work their way through academic medicine while keeping in touch with their clinical work. The new consultants' contract will help in that direction.Lord Warner
: My Lords, given that there have been excellent but disturbing reports from both the Council of Heads of Medical Schools on clinical academic medicine and the Royal College of Physicians on behalf of the Academy of Medical Sciences, and accepting everything that the Minister has said about the increasing numbers of medical students, is it not time that the Government looked at the effect that the research assessment exercise may be having on those in junior careers in clinical academic medicine? Could not the Government also look at whether there could be some recognition of both teaching and research in the performance measures for foundation and NHS trusts?Baroness Neuberger
: My Lords, I repeat what I said to the noble Earl, Lord Howe: we are working with Dr Mark Walport who is working with many of the people mentioned by the noble Baroness on improving the career pathways for young academic doctors. That is the way forward in this area. I am certainly happy to consider what the noble Baroness said in relation to foundation and other trusts, but I must draw her attention to the fact that the Healthcare Commission is looking at the criteria for assessing performance in the NHS through its consultation on assessment for improvement. I shall draw the points made by the noble Baroness to its attention.Lord Warner
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that some young academic doctors do not have enough time to carry out their clinical research? This was the case with a cousin of mine who is now working as a microbiologist in Perth, Australia.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, clearly many of these young people are very creative and talented. They will, to some extent, move around the world and the country into different jobs during their careers. I repeat what I said: we acknowledge that there is a need to improve the career pathways for young academic doctors. That is why we commissioned Dr Mark Walport to lead this work, with many of his colleagues and interests in the medical academic fraternity, so that we can have a better career pathway in future.Lord Warner
: My Lords, it was reported in the past few days that a doctor was planning to set up a medical school outside the NHS. What is the Minister's reaction to that?Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, he will have to convince the General Medical Council that the arrangements are satisfactory for the training and qualification of doctors.Lord Warner
: My Lords, while accepting that the Minister has encouraged NHS consultants to teach and has given them contracts, is he aware that some of them take teaching as the last resort in their responsibilities? Therefore, should not this be monitored to see how effective these contracts are?Lord Chan
: My Lords, it is not for government to monitor that particular work. Universities and medical schools take responsibility for the quality of the people they use in teaching. To repeat the point that I made in my reply to the noble Earl, Lord Howe, there has been a 30 per cent increase in NHS consultants with honorary contracts undertaking teaching and research. We value the contribution that they are making to the training of the doctors of the future.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Minister will be aware that, on a daily basis, medical staff in our hospitals face the most complex ethical issues. Is he able to assure the House that, in any review of academic training of medical staff, adequate training is given to those staff in their consideration of major ethical issues?The Lord Bishop of St Albans
: My Lords, I certainly have not heard of any concerns that that training is inadequate. I know that doctors, both in training and when they are in practice, take these ethical issues extremely seriously.Lord Warner
: My Lords, one such visit has been made. This was made by the Secretary of State for Defence in April 2003, when he visited patients at Selly Oak Hospital.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
: My Lords, is it not extraordinary that the 790 casualties who have suffered serious enough injury to be evacuated from Iraq to the United Kingdom have had only that one visit? Where has the Prime Minister been, and why are the Government so keen to keep dark the number of casualties, which has now been revealed by way of the Freedom of Information Act? Is the Minister aware that Ministers in the other place answer questions about casualties either by saying that they will write to the honourable Member, which more or less buries the question, or by listing casualties with ordinary sickness, which confuses the issue?Lord Blaker
: My Lords, it is completely untrue that the information about casualties came out as a result of the Freedom of Information Act. The Secretary of State for Defence gave the figures in an oral Answer, as I understand it, on 10 January in another place. It is untrue also to say that we have not answered questions about that, but many casualties or people who are injured do not want their details given out. Therefore, we are not proactive about it, but, when asked, we certainly reply.Lord Bach
: My Lords, I went to the service which the Minister mentioned. Unfortunately, like many others, I was not asked to the reception afterwards so I feel that I could not add benefit to that point. Will a Minister visit the combat stress unit, which deals with post-traumatic stress disorder? If those who are wounded seem to be the forgotten victims of Iraq, those who suffer from the mental anxiety of post-combat stress disorder are often completely neglected.Lord Redesdale
879: My Lords, as I think the noble Lord will know, the Birmingham centre is not responsible for
879Lord Bach
: My Lords, is it not axiomatic that all Members of the House value the contribution that is made by our armed services and value the provision that is made for those who are unfortunate enough to need it at the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine in Birmingham? Can I ask my noble friend to explain to us the provision that is made at Birmingham not merely for medical treatment but for the welfare needs of members of our Armed Forces?Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, I can help my noble friend on that matter. Welfare support is provided directly to military patients at the centre by the Defence Medical Welfare Service team, the padre and the patient administration staff. Patients are visited once a day. Importantly, welfare officers from units are also involved. We know that there is a close link between the regimental welfare officers and all patients in hospital.Lord Bach
: My Lords, if Ministers want to avoid the accusations that my noble friend has rightly made, it would be nice to see them getting out and about and visiting a few more injured service men. How many letters to families of those killed in Iraq and to service men and women wounded there have defence Ministers personally signed?Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, I have to say that I think that that is a cheap shot from the noble Lord today, in the circumstances. Given all the questions that could be asked in the House about Iraq, a question about how many Ministers have visited a hospital at a particular time seems to me to be rather unnecessary.Lord Bach
: My Lords, is it not the case that, in some quarters of the country—not in your Lordships' House, of course—there is more than a whiff of hypocrisy about such allegations? In fact, if Ministers, especially the Prime Minister, were seen traipsing every day to see those involved in Iraq, they would be accused of ambulance chasing and gross misbehaviour.Lord Hughes of Woodside
880: My Lords, what soldiers want is to get better and get home. They want their friends and family around them. Very few patients stay in the Birmingham centre for long. A number of them are out-patients who go there and go home the same day.
880Lord Bach
: My Lords, could I clarify that? Are Ministers not planning any future visits to the wounded from Iraq, or are there planned visits?Lord Rotherwick
: My Lords, as I understand it, the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, my honourable friend Mr Ivor Caplin, intends to visit the Birmingham centre in the near future. That visit has been planned for some time.Lord Bach
: My Lords, I tried last year to get answers from the Minister by way of Written Questions about the details of those injured in Iraq. He was unable to provide separate numbers for those injured in combat and those "casevaced" for other reasons. Will the Ministry of Defence review its procedures, so that we can know who is injured and people such as MPs can visit their constituents? There is a problem here, but not a party political one.Lord Garden
: My Lords, 790 is the figure that has been given for those who have gone to the centre. I must make it clear that they have not all been injured in combat. They have come back from Iraq either injured in combat or injured in road traffic accidents or accidents of another kind, even accidents while playing sport. They are brought back to the centre, if they have physical injuries, and, as I say, many of them are treated as out-patients and go home. If there is a problem—the noble Lord believes that there is—I will look into it.Lord Bach
881: My Lords, it is for individual national parks authorities to decide how to deploy their resources in order best to deliver their statutory purposes, but Ministers have encouraged them to expand the engagement of volunteers in promoting appreciation of the national park. I am glad that the Lake District is taking action to encourage people from all walks of life to appreciate and enjoy the park. But that should be an additional effort, not at a cost to
881The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that response. I am sure that all in the House would welcome more people from all communities visiting the national parks. However, is it not true that the government report of July 2002 highlighted the problem and has put pressure on national parks to review their policy? Does the Minister not agree that a cut of a popular service that costs only £32,000 out of an £8 million budget is regrettable?Baroness Byford
: My Lords, these are not matters for Ministers. It is true that the Government have encouraged national parks to give some priority to encourage people from inner cities in particular to use, covet, visit and appreciate the beautiful countryside in our national parks. That is government policy and the guidance we have given to the Lake District and other national parks. However, the items in the budget being considered for savings or reprioritisation are a matter for the Lake District National Park and other national parks. The item to which the noble Baroness alludes is among those being considered, but no decisions have been taken.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the appointment of members of the national park authority is a matter for government. Is the Minister aware that there is currently one vacancy on the board; and will he ensure that before the February meeting when the matter is to be discussed and decided, that place is filled by someone who lives in the national park?Lord Jopling
: My Lords, regrettably these days that last point is a feature of many institutions, public and private. There are procedures laid down and in train for public appointments. I am sure that the noble Lord would be one of the first to criticise if Ministers interfered with that process or proceeded to give specific directions to the appointee on how they carried out their duties.Lord Whitty
882: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that public authorities suffer from bad reporting and national parks are no exception? Only yesterday the North Yorkshire National Park was reported as taking a policy position on house
882Lord Hogg of Cumbernauld
: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend. The North Yorkshire National Park is the planning authority and housing decisions are a matter for it. There is clearly an issue of affordable housing within the North Yorkshire area, as in many other parts of our rural communities. The press did not use the term "dotty idea" as it has just been referred to, but the policy was presented in an odd way that did not bear out full examination of the facts.Lord Whitty
: My Lords. I declare an interest as vice-president of the Council for National Parks. Does the Minister agree that national parks have to deal with many tensions concerned with housing, dividing up their budgets and so on? Will he underline that those issues are matters for the national parks authorities? Regrettably, this Question is a good example of why at national level we should not meddle with such decisions, which are rightly left to the park authorities.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, precisely; I said exactly that in my first Answer. This is a matter for individual park authorities. Of course there are conflicting pressures on them and they have responsibility for considering priorities within their budgets, but it is a matter for them which they address effectively. This apparent criticism of our national parks is not at all valid. They do a fantastic job. We need to encourage more people to go into our national parks and enjoy the countryside.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that the Bowland and Pennine Mountain Rescue Team, which is nothing to do with the national park, had an application for a major grant refused on similar grounds to the problem referred to in the Question? If such a principle were to be applied more generally, bodies such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution or possibly even St John Ambulance could be refused grants in particular circumstances because the place where they were applying for the grant was not "socially correct" or "socially appropriate".Lord Dixon-Smith
883: My Lords, the noble Lord acknowledged that this is not a matter for the national parks. I have no knowledge of the grant application to which he refers: I would probably be precluded from
883Lord Whitty
898897"the promotion of religious or racial harmony".: My Lords, the contribution that charities make to our society is such that their effective promotion and regulation is a matter of importance to us all. But it is also a matter in which the Churches and other faith groups have a particular interest, not only because, in many cases, the institutions through which they work enjoy charitable status, but because of the long history of involvement by those with a religious commitment in the formation, funding and administration of charities. It should be no surprise, therefore, that I speak from these Benches to welcome, in principle, the bringing forward of the programme of change to the legal framework for the administration and regulation of charities embodied in the Bill.898897"the promotion of religious or racial harmony".The Lord Bishop of Southwell
973"All external relations policies have been diluted and confused, rendering it impossible to identify a clear political … commitment to development"."a thematic and geographical/regional model based on the prospect of EU membership in the medium and longer terms"."a huge step back from the February Communication".972971: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Bowness, for securing this debate and for introducing it in such a comprehensive fashion. I would also like to thank him very much for his careful, courteous and diplomatic chairmanship of a committee where views of the EU can come, shall we say, from rather diametrically opposed positions. It was a privilege to serve on his committee.973"All external relations policies have been diluted and confused, rendering it impossible to identify a clear political … commitment to development"."a thematic and geographical/regional model based on the prospect of EU membership in the medium and longer terms"."a huge step back from the February Communication".972971Baroness Northover
976975974: My Lords, there is a greater degree of overlap and coherence between these two reports than one might at first expect from their titles. That is one among a number of reasons for welcoming this debate. Another is that, as an incoming member of the sub-committee which produced these reports, and having had nothing to do with their production, I have an opportunity to salute the quality of its work before that becomes simply self-congratulatory.976975974Lord Hannay of Chiswick
979"early, rapid and where necessary, robust intervention".978"We were forced to rely heavily on American military power to give credibility to the diplomatic campaign. We were stretched to put together a contribution to KFOR. We were not pulling our weight"."Europe should be ready to share in the responsibility for global security and in building a better world".977: My Lords, first, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Bowness, and the European Union Sub-Committee C on the excellent report laid before your Lordships' House today. I agree with all the sub-committee's conclusions.979"early, rapid and where necessary, robust intervention".978"We were forced to rely heavily on American military power to give credibility to the diplomatic campaign. We were stretched to put together a contribution to KFOR. We were not pulling our weight"."Europe should be ready to share in the responsibility for global security and in building a better world".977Lord Truscott
"As a union of 25 states with over 450 million people producing a quarter of the world's Gross National Product …the European Union is inevitably a global player … Europe should be ready to share in the responsibility for global security and in building a better world".981980: My Lords, I, too, congratulate, the European Union Sub-Committee C on its work in putting together the excellent report on the EU security strategy."As a union of 25 states with over 450 million people producing a quarter of the world's Gross National Product …the European Union is inevitably a global player … Europe should be ready to share in the responsibility for global security and in building a better world".981980Lord Garden
locus983982: My Lords, I begin by expressing the great debt that Sub-Committee C owes to its chairman, the noble Lord, Lord Bowness, who opened the debate today. He has shown great skill and tenacity in coming to the conclusions that the committee did, which have been so widely commended in the debate. It is true, as my noble friend Lady Northover said, that many members of the committee start from different points of view on European matters, but a strong consensus was reached in both reports, which is highly significant to their effectiveness.locus983982Lord Maclennan of Rogart
985984: My Lords, first of all, I would like to thank my noble friends Lord Bowness and Lord Jopling and their committee for all the hard work they have done to produce these reports. I defer to the detailed knowledge that many of the committee members have shared with us in todays debate.985984Baroness Rawlings
"Together, the EU and US can be a formidable force for good in the world".992991990989988987986: My Lords, I start, as other noble Lords have, by congratulating the noble Lord, Lord Bowness, on this debate and all other Peers who have made constructive contributions in all cases. I join the noble Lord, Lord Bowness, in thanking Sir Tim Lankaster and others for the background work which he quite rightly acknowledged. It has been a thought-provoking exchange of views, and I will try to reflect on them here. Whether the media choose to reflect on them, whether they would have done so even if the debate had taken place on the day that the report was published, is quite another matter. Had we had straight sausages to discuss today, no doubt they
"Together, the EU and US can be a formidable force for good in the world".992991990989988987986Lord Triesman
994993: My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have taken part in this debate, and for the thanks they have expressed to the sub-committee—and indeed the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, and the noble Lord, Lord Maclennan, for their kind remarks to the chairman.994993Lord Bowness
Lord Bowness.EU Security Strategy: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Lord Bowness.EU Security StrategyLord Bowness
900899: My Lords, I welcome this Bill and the way in which my noble friend the Minister introduced it and explained its details. In common with most noble Lords who will speak today, I should declare an interest. I have been chief executive of one charity and have been a chair, trustee or patron of quite a number of others. Perhaps I may have the unique distinction that on three occasions, charities with which I have been closely associated have been reported to the Charity Commission on grounds of political activities. I shall say more about this later on.900899Lord Dubs
"the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity".931930: My Lords, I commence by declaring my interest in a number of charities. They are the Forbes Trust, the Ethnic Minority Foundation, the Council of Ethnic Minority Voluntary Sector Organisations, AMREF, PREA, PRISM, the British Muslim Research Centre, the Local Investment Fund and Oxfam India. I have also been a member of Oxfam UK and the National Lottery Charities Board."the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity".931930Lord Bhatia
909vis-à-vis908vis-à-vis907906: My Lords, I hope it will be sufficient—the Clerk will no doubt tell me—if I declare my interest generally by reference to the official House records. I have founded four charities and am a trustee of many. As a solicitor who has been active some 30-something years in the charity world, if I started ringing out the names of my clients noble Lords would be bored to death.909vis-à-vis908vis-à-vis907906Lord Phillips of Sudbury
"Belief in a supernatural being, thing or principle; and acceptance and observance of canons of conduct in order to give effect to that belief."For the advancement of religion to be charitable a religion has to: be founded on a belief in a supreme being or beings; and involve expression of that belief through worship".Registering as a Charity920"the anomaly that some organisations already registered under the head of the advancement of religion, for example Buddhism, do not meet the current legal definition","The clear evidence we found was that non-deity and multi-deity groups can already satisfy the (common law) charity law definition of a 'religion' and thus qualify for charitable status. There are, for example, over two hundred charities registered for the purposes of advancing the Buddhist faith, and a similar number for the purposes of advancing the Hindu faith. The Charity Commission began registering some such organisations from the time the register of charities was being created in the 1960s, so their recognition as charitable is well established. The Government's conclusion in considering the Strategy Unit Review was that there was no need for a statutory definition of 'religion' in charity law. That remains our view. We therefore do not accept this recommendation"."to clarify that faiths that are multi-deity (such as Hinduism) or non-deity (such as some types of Buddhism) should also qualify".Private Action, Public Benefit"We remain of the view that Convention compliance could best be supported by including the advancement of non-religious beliefs as a charitable purpose under clause 2(2)(c) and we draw this matter to the attention of both Houses".919"The Home Office responded that it was satisfied that organisations advancing non-religious beliefs would not be disadvantaged under the Bill as currently drafted, since the law would be capable of development compatibly with the Convention rights. The Home Office also considered that defining non-religious belief systems would require detailed legislative provisions which would impair the flexibility of the legislation. However, the Home Office was prepared to consider setting out the position of non-religious belief systems in guidance"."I do not believe in Belief".What I Believe: My Lords, like all previous speakers, I greatly welcome the Bill. I entirely share the important concerns expressed by the noble Lord, Lord Sainsbury, in his powerful speech and other concerns that have already been expressed. I shall focus on only one issue, which is the legal uncertainty and potential for discrimination resulting from the absence of a definition in the Bill of "religion" and the absence of a reference to "belief" as distinct from religion."Belief in a supernatural being, thing or principle; and acceptance and observance of canons of conduct in order to give effect to that belief."For the advancement of religion to be charitable a religion has to: be founded on a belief in a supreme being or beings; and involve expression of that belief through worship".Registering as a Charity920"the anomaly that some organisations already registered under the head of the advancement of religion, for example Buddhism, do not meet the current legal definition","The clear evidence we found was that non-deity and multi-deity groups can already satisfy the (common law) charity law definition of a 'religion' and thus qualify for charitable status. There are, for example, over two hundred charities registered for the purposes of advancing the Buddhist faith, and a similar number for the purposes of advancing the Hindu faith. The Charity Commission began registering some such organisations from the time the register of charities was being created in the 1960s, so their recognition as charitable is well established. The Government's conclusion in considering the Strategy Unit Review was that there was no need for a statutory definition of 'religion' in charity law. That remains our view. We therefore do not accept this recommendation"."to clarify that faiths that are multi-deity (such as Hinduism) or non-deity (such as some types of Buddhism) should also qualify".Private Action, Public Benefit"We remain of the view that Convention compliance could best be supported by including the advancement of non-religious beliefs as a charitable purpose under clause 2(2)(c) and we draw this matter to the attention of both Houses".919"The Home Office responded that it was satisfied that organisations advancing non-religious beliefs would not be disadvantaged under the Bill as currently drafted, since the law would be capable of development compatibly with the Convention rights. The Home Office also considered that defining non-religious belief systems would require detailed legislative provisions which would impair the flexibility of the legislation. However, the Home Office was prepared to consider setting out the position of non-religious belief systems in guidance"."I do not believe in Belief".What I BelieveLord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, the House will have noticed the extensive speakers' list for today's debates. If Back-Bench speeches are restricted to about 10 minutes the House will rise at 7 p.m.Lord Davies of Oldham
pot pourri929"recommends that the Charity Commission should be given a duty in the Bill to consult with principal regulators before using any of its enforcement powers in respect of exempt charities".928"the Home Office is prepared to take this into consideration when the Bill is published"."the power to make regulations prescribing a body … as the principal regulator of an exempt charity"927926: My Lords, may I first draw attention to my entry in the register of interests as senior partner of Beachcroft Wansbroughs and as an office-holder in numerous charitable and other organisations in Wirral and elsewhere?pot pourri929"recommends that the Charity Commission should be given a duty in the Bill to consult with principal regulators before using any of its enforcement powers in respect of exempt charities".928"the Home Office is prepared to take this into consideration when the Bill is published"."the power to make regulations prescribing a body … as the principal regulator of an exempt charity"927926Lord Hunt of Wirral
"Please note: If we do not hear from you within three months of the date of this letter, we will assume that you do not wish to take the matter further and all correspondence held regarding this particular matter will be destroyed in accordance with Charity Commission policy".895Private Action, Public Benefit: My Lords, I give a warm welcome to the Bill, and thank the Minister for her introduction."Please note: If we do not hear from you within three months of the date of this letter, we will assume that you do not wish to take the matter further and all correspondence held regarding this particular matter will be destroyed in accordance with Charity Commission policy".895Private Action, Public BenefitLord Shutt of Greetland
965964963962961960959958: My Lords, it is with some considerable trepidation that I approach the Dispatch Box today having listened to in excess of four and a half hours of debate of the highest possible quality and calibre on a subject which is probably close to the heart of nearly every Member of your Lordships' House. Like everyone else, I ought to declare my interests and the interests of the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland, and say that all of our charitable concerns and interests are, of course, in the register.965964963962961960959958Lord Bassam of Brighton
937936935: My Lords, like all others who have spoken before me, I warmly welcome this Bill. I have to declare an interest as a patron, office-holder or other involvement, in charitable organisations, not least in fundraising. I do not need to repeat all the arguments in favour of voluntary activity, because they were well rehearsed by my noble friends Lord Hodgson of Astley Abbots and Lady Howe of Idlicote, and by the noble Lord, Lord Phillips of Sudbury, among others. 1 agree with everything that they said.937936935Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market
"as far as is reasonably possible""the draft bill should include provision to ensure that the regulatory burden on grant making charities does not discourage philanthropy".905"The Charity Commission is an anonymous bureaucracy … completely muddled on its investment policy and its diversification policy. If the Government wants new entrepreneurs to put, say, 10℅ of the company into a trust and then two years later tells them to diversify, why should they set it up … in the first place?".904"The evidence we have heard has given us reason to question whether the Charity Commission is properly organised and properly resourced to make it effective in its new tasks. We recommend that professional advice be sought to review the ability of the Charity Commission to meet its new responsibilities under the draft Bill and in particular the quality of the processes, methods and organisation; the calibre of its staff; its resources".903902"there has been much criticism about the lack of Parliamentary accountability of Non Ministerial Departments and this option is best avoided"."The general rationale is to distance the day to day administration of the particular activity from direct Ministerial control, while retaining some Government input to the wider policy context".Directory of Civil Service Guidance"If the Charity Commission is a Government Department, then it is likely to lessen, rather than increase, public confidence in charities. It will be seen as susceptible to being used by the Government to further its own policies. Indeed, it is conceivable that this is in fact what the relationship between the Commission and the Government would develop into; it may not only be a matter of perception. To avoid this, the Commission needs to be— and to be seen as—an entity established to serve the public benefit and uphold the law, not beholden to the Government and outside the sphere of governmental policy considerations"."to remain an independent regulator completely free from any Ministerial direction and control"."the phrase 'on behalf of the Crown', should be removed and replaced by a clear statement that the Commission shall be a body independent of Government".901: My Lords, I must first declare an interest as the founder and a current trustee of a grant making endowed charitable trust; namely, the Linbury Trust. Since it was established in 1973, I have been involved in the process of grant making, which has brought me in touch with a wide range of charities in social welfare, education, arts, heritage and the environment. I am also currently a trustee of two charities: the Ashmolean Museum and the Rambert School of Ballet and Contemporary Dance."as far as is reasonably possible""the draft bill should include provision to ensure that the regulatory burden on grant making charities does not discourage philanthropy".905"The Charity Commission is an anonymous bureaucracy … completely muddled on its investment policy and its diversification policy. If the Government wants new entrepreneurs to put, say, 10℅ of the company into a trust and then two years later tells them to diversify, why should they set it up … in the first place?".904"The evidence we have heard has given us reason to question whether the Charity Commission is properly organised and properly resourced to make it effective in its new tasks. We recommend that professional advice be sought to review the ability of the Charity Commission to meet its new responsibilities under the draft Bill and in particular the quality of the processes, methods and organisation; the calibre of its staff; its resources".903902"there has been much criticism about the lack of Parliamentary accountability of Non Ministerial Departments and this option is best avoided"."The general rationale is to distance the day to day administration of the particular activity from direct Ministerial control, while retaining some Government input to the wider policy context".Directory of Civil Service Guidance"If the Charity Commission is a Government Department, then it is likely to lessen, rather than increase, public confidence in charities. It will be seen as susceptible to being used by the Government to further its own policies. Indeed, it is conceivable that this is in fact what the relationship between the Commission and the Government would develop into; it may not only be a matter of perception. To avoid this, the Commission needs to be— and to be seen as—an entity established to serve the public benefit and uphold the law, not beholden to the Government and outside the sphere of governmental policy considerations"."to remain an independent regulator completely free from any Ministerial direction and control"."the phrase 'on behalf of the Crown', should be removed and replaced by a clear statement that the Commission shall be a body independent of Government".901Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover
955954"It is essential that charities law is modernised to create a clear and effective framework. It is vital to build public confidence and trust in charities and to ensure openness and accountability through effective regulation"."the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity".953: My Lords, we now come to the concluding part of this very important debate. I thank the Minister for a very detailed explanation of the Bill. I also add my thanks to the noble Lord, Lord Hodgson of Astley Abbotts; his contribution was very constructive and focused.955954"It is essential that charities law is modernised to create a clear and effective framework. It is vital to build public confidence and trust in charities and to ensure openness and accountability through effective regulation"."the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity".953Lord Dholakia
The GuardiansThe Founders917916: My Lords, it is a great pleasure and privilege to follow the noble Baroness, Lady Mcintosh of Hudnall. Ever since she and I did business together across a table in the cultural sector more than a decade ago I have had, quite apart from natural affection, a profound professional admiration and respect for her.The GuardiansThe Founders917916Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
"increasingly complementary roles that Government and the voluntary sector play in the development and deliver) of public services".938"The voluntary and community sector is uniquely placed to become a more active partner with Government in shaping policy and delivery".: My Lords, I begin by strongly supporting the points made by the noble Lord, Lord MacGregor, about the Bill being welcome and about the need, above all, to ensure that it will be enacted before this Parliament ends. It is also welcome that, after extensive scrutiny in a Joint Committee of both Houses, it should be introduced in your Lordships' House. Most Members of this House have an interest in charities. Many are trustees and quite a few chair trusts and boards or serve as patrons. Indeed, were the House to be abolished, or even turned into an elected Chamber, a great reservoir of responsibility for the voluntary and charitable sector would be lost."increasingly complementary roles that Government and the voluntary sector play in the development and deliver) of public services".938"The voluntary and community sector is uniquely placed to become a more active partner with Government in shaping policy and delivery".Lord Dahrendorf
923922: My Lords, I declare the usual bunch of interests. I have been continuously involved with the charitable and voluntary sector since the 1960s, and I am director of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust. I was a member too of the pre-legislative scrutiny committee on the draft Charities Bill. I think that I am the only Member of the House of Lords from that group who is present. I pay my tribute to our officers and advisers, who helped us produce a very impressive result. Indeed, I thank Alan Milburn for his role in the chair, which was not a difficult one.923922Lord Best
894inter alia893892891inter alia890: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for her characteristically thorough explanation of this important legislation. As she said, the Bill has been eagerly awaited for some time by the charitable sector, and it is good that the legislative process is at last under way. At the outset, let me make it clear that, on these Benches, we give the Bill an in principle welcome. We recognise and support the broad policy themes that underpin it.894inter alia893892891inter alia890Lord Hodgson of Astley Abbotts
947"In the Governments view compensation should be payable where the Commissions standards of conduct or service fall below acceptable levels and cause a loss to a person or organisation. These matters will not be within the remit of the Tribunal, remaining instead within the remit of the Independent Complaints Reviewer and the Parliamentary Ombudsman. For that reason the Government does not believe it appropriate to give the Tribunal power to award compensation".946945: My Lords, like other noble Lords I, too, have interests to declare in relation to this Bill. While the noble Baroness, Lady Howarth, was trustee of the John Grooms Housing Association for disabled people, I was one of her employees. Although I have not had anything to do with it for several years now, I was with it for some 15 years. I am currently an adviser to the Leonard Cheshire Centre of Conflict Recovery and some years ago my wife and I set up the Swinfen Charitable Trust, which we both still run. That sets up telemedical links to hospitals in the developing world in post-conflict situations, to provide them with free medical consultants' advice.947"In the Governments view compensation should be payable where the Commissions standards of conduct or service fall below acceptable levels and cause a loss to a person or organisation. These matters will not be within the remit of the Tribunal, remaining instead within the remit of the Independent Complaints Reviewer and the Parliamentary Ombudsman. For that reason the Government does not believe it appropriate to give the Tribunal power to award compensation".946945Lord Swinfen
925924: My Lords, I hope that I will be able to make my contribution without losing my voice. Although this is my last week in the role, I declare an interest as the chief executive of Breakthrough Breast Cancer, which is a registered charity. If it is true that charity is a cottage garden, I have to admit to being a lifelong keen gardener.925924Baroness Morgan of Drefelin
934933Private Action, Public Benefit: My Lords, I should declare an interest as chief executive of Universities UK and an elected trustee of the National Council for Voluntary Organisations. Universities UK is a charity and a member of the NCVO. With other noble Lords, I congratulate the NCVO on and thank it for its work to see the Bill introduced. As has been evident throughout the debate, it has been widely welcomed by the charitable sector. The principles of transparency and accountability, balanced by a desire for minimum regulation, are in my opinion a sound basis for charity law.934933Private Action, Public BenefitBaroness Warwick of Undercliffe
912Power without Accountability"be revising the application forms for registration so that all charities give details of how they will provide public benefit. Then we will use the information … to make sure they provide sufficient public benefit".Whitehall & Westminster World911Under"political support for the voluntary sector must go beyond its role as an alternative supplier of public services".910: My Lords, like other noble Lords, I have spent a considerable part of my life benefiting from and working with charities. So I must declare a root and branch interest in this whole subject. I should mention specifically my membership of NCVO's advisory committee, as that organisation has played an invaluable role in facilitating this important Bill.912Power without Accountability"be revising the application forms for registration so that all charities give details of how they will provide public benefit. Then we will use the information … to make sure they provide sufficient public benefit".Whitehall & Westminster World911Under"political support for the voluntary sector must go beyond its role as an alternative supplier of public services".910Baroness Howe of Idlicote
"to preserve the Charity Commission's status as a Government Department".914"The intention of putting such a list into the Bill would be to set out some of the factors which are to be taken into account by the Charity Commission and the court when considering an organisation's public benefit. There is a risk that over time the list would come to be seen as representing not some but all of the factors to be taken into account".913: My Lords, I start by declaring my interest as a trustee of a number of charities, large and small, all declared on the register. They are mostly arts-related, and include the Almeida Theatre, Welsh National Opera and Southbank Sinfonia. I was also employed for many years first by the Royal Shakespeare Company and then by the Royal National Theatre. I mention these in particular because they are all arts organisations with charitable status, rather than campaigning, fund-raising or grant-giving charities such as those mentioned by other noble Lords."to preserve the Charity Commission's status as a Government Department".914"The intention of putting such a list into the Bill would be to set out some of the factors which are to be taken into account by the Charity Commission and the court when considering an organisation's public benefit. There is a risk that over time the list would come to be seen as representing not some but all of the factors to be taken into account".913Baroness McIntosh of Hudnall
941940"expand and modernise to create a more vibrant and diverse voluntary sector",939: My Lords, it is a huge pleasure to follow the noble Lord, Lord Dahrendorf, in his very moving contribution. I am reminded that I made my maiden speech following a Wednesday afternoon
941940"expand and modernise to create a more vibrant and diverse voluntary sector",939Baroness Byford
949"I just want to clarify that the commission will be robust in upholding and implementing the spirit of the concordat with the Home Office, indeed to the extent of removing charitable status from existing charities where necessary if in the light of removal of presumption they fail to meet the new public benefit test".948: My Lords, my declarations of interest are as stated in the record, although I shall mention specific ones as I go through my remarks. Like many other noble Lords, I have worked in or closely with the charitable sector or, as it is fashionably called nowadays, the third sector, most of my working life and could not be more delighted to be here today at this Second Reading. It feels as though it has been a long wait.949"I just want to clarify that the commission will be robust in upholding and implementing the spirit of the concordat with the Home Office, indeed to the extent of removing charitable status from existing charities where necessary if in the light of removal of presumption they fail to meet the new public benefit test".948Baroness Pitkeathley
957956: My Lords, this has been a characteristically high calibre debate today in your Lordships' House. Like other noble Lords, I wish to declare an interest, which I had until 2001. I was deputy chairman of the trustees of Nuffield Hospitals, which at that time was the fourth largest charity in the country. I align myself with my noble friends Lady Byford and Lady Rawlings as, of course, like them, I have done my share of fundraising and other charitable activity.957956Baroness Seccombe
952951"Just because the State pays for services, it doesn't always have to provide them. Involving the voluntary or private sectors helps to drive up standards—benefiting everyone. Voluntary organisations are often more flexible and more responsive than the State. They tailor their services to the communities they work in".950: My Lords, I support my noble friend Lord Hodgson in welcoming the Bill in principle. I am encouraged, too, by the Minister's introduction and that the Government are still willing to listen to ideas, especially as we have all received voluminous, concerned communications from the charitable and voluntary sectors. I am also grateful to the Joint Committee for all its detailed and constructive work.952951"Just because the State pays for services, it doesn't always have to provide them. Involving the voluntary or private sectors helps to drive up standards—benefiting everyone. Voluntary organisations are often more flexible and more responsive than the State. They tailor their services to the communities they work in".950Baroness Rawlings
889888887886"the promotion of equality and diversity","the advancement of the arts, culture, heritage or science",885"There is a real need for legislation to modernise charity law. In order for charities to operate effectively and for charities to retain public trust and confidence, charity law needs to be seen to be relevant and effective".884: My Lords, I beg to move that the Bill be now read a second time.889888887886"the promotion of equality and diversity","the advancement of the arts, culture, heritage or science",885"There is a real need for legislation to modernise charity law. In order for charities to operate effectively and for charities to retain public trust and confidence, charity law needs to be seen to be relevant and effective".884The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
944943942: My Lords, as many other speakers have testified, the voluntary and community sector brings added value, innovation and specialist knowledge to the delivery of services across a very wide spectrum of people and concerns. It is a very powerful force for good in our society. But in order to inspire and keep public confidence we need proportionate, clear and well defined self-regulation and consistent standards of conduct.944943942Baroness Howarth of Breckland
: This side!Noble Lords
(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting.
(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting."ANNUAL PARENTS MEETING(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting.
(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting."ANNUAL PARENTS MEETINGAfter Clause 100, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 145A:
(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting.
(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting."ANNUAL PARENTS MEETING(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting.
(2) The headmaster shall decide on the nature, length and style of any meeting which is to be held."(1) It shall be left to the discretion of the headmaster of each maintained school in England and Wales to decide whether or not to hold an annual parents' meeting."ANNUAL PARENTS MEETINGAfter Clause 100, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
 Before the noble Lord sits down, perhaps I may make explicitly clear what my noble friend was signalling—I thought very clearly—before we adjourned for dinner. We have had a number of important debates about the role of parents generally in the Bill. We debated their role in inspection and in the governance and accountability of the school, as exhibited through annual reports and other mechanisms.Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for that comment. He will have heard the strength of feeling from all sides of the Chamber about this issue earlier in the debate. I should still like to test the feeling of the Committee on this amendment, although obviously there could be further amendments later if this one is not successful.Lord Hanningfield
1107Page 53, line 29, at end insert "including the level of educational achievement and attainment achieved by the school and a summary of the school's most recent Ofsted report" moved Amendment No. 145B:
1107Page 53, line 29, at end insert "including the level of educational achievement and attainment achieved by the school and a summary of the school's most recent Ofsted report"Baroness Morris of Bolton
: Amendment No. 145D is grouped with this amendment. If it is agreed to, I cannot call Amendment No. 146.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Brougham and Vaux)
"or which the governing body may wish to provide",: I wish to speak briefly to Amendment No. 146, which is tabled in my name. The clause seems to prevent the governing body providing such information as it may wish as part of its school profile. As drafted, the clause gives the Secretary of State unlimited powers. I would like to add the phrase,
"or which the governing body may wish to provide",Baroness Walmsley
: I am very grateful to the noble Baroness for the suggestion. It is an extension of the trial. She will find that many of the questions that she asked in her many amendments on this matter will be answered in the affirmative, because we are making provision already. I shall certainly give her a fuller answer than I can provide today.Baroness Andrews
1108: I thank the Minister for that reply. If, under the clause, the Secretary of State is to be given absolute discretion about the contents of
1108Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I added my name to the amendment. I warmly support the clause, but I think that it would be greatly improved by the amendment. The time being what it is, I shall say no more, unless provoked.Lord Dearing
: I have tried hard not to provoke any noble Lords. I am grateful for the welcome—Baroness Andrews
: I apologise: I was not quick enough to my feet. In speaking to Clause 102 stand part, I shall speak also in support of Amendment No. 147, which is tabled by the noble Lords, Lord Dearing and Lord Sutherland. I wish to associate these Benches with everything that the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland, said.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1110: The volume of correspondence that the noble Baroness and I will have in the next week will, I think, reach mega proportions. If she has detailed questions, we will be delighted to answer them.1110Baroness Andrews
: Members on these Benches simply want to know how this will work, how it will be funded, and ensure that any final decision remains with heads and governing bodies.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1111: I thank the noble Baroness for her helpful reply, although there is still a question of quite how the QAA will be involved. I would hate a situation to develop where personalities made it difficult. At the moment that would not be the case, and the advantage of having something either
1111Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: I associate these Benches with the amendment of the noble Baroness, Lady Morris of Bolton. We share her concerns. I shall not repeat the arguments that she has so ably laid before the Committee; I just wish to express our support.Baroness Walmsley
1114: The Government are committed to the protection of school playing fields. Since 1998 we have ensured that only school pitches that are surplus to the needs of local schools and their communities are sold and that all the money is ploughed back into improving sports or educational facilities.1114Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for his detailed reply but, despite that answer, we feel that under the Government too many schools have lost too many playing fields and too many children have lost too vital a part of their education. This waste of resource and of children's talents and health must not be allowed to continue. For the moment I shall withdraw the amendment, but I am sure that we shall return to it at Report stage.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1115: I broadly support the thrust of the noble Baroness's agenda. However, I will explain why I think that the amendment is not necessary and would perhaps frustrate what she seeks to achieve, although I recognise it is a probing amendment.1115Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for his reply. Neither would I want to prevent schools using those resources for the sort of purposes that he outlined. Therefore, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
1117: This is one of a group of amendments on data sharing in relation to education maintenance allowances and free school meals. The previous group of amendments was withdrawn and I would have given the noble Baroness a long and detailed explanation of the exact process—about who receives this information and under what conditions.1117Baroness Andrews
: I thank the Minister for her reply, and I look forward to receiving her letter. People's private financial details have long been confidential, and any risk to that confidentiality must be taken very seriously. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1119: Only 45—I wish.1119Lord Filkin
: I certainly would. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
1120"regulations to require or authorise the proprietor of a school, a children's services authority … or any person prescribed in regulations to supply information … to the Secretary of State, the Assembly",: I shall briefly outline the points and would be grateful if we could be sent a written explanation from the Minister dealing with them. The Explanatory Notes tell us that Clause 110 will enable,
1120"regulations to require or authorise the proprietor of a school, a children's services authority … or any person prescribed in regulations to supply information … to the Secretary of State, the Assembly",Lord Hanningfield
: Perhaps I may ask the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, whether he wanted me to dazzle him—or weary him—by reading out my speaking note or whether he would prefer that I correspond with him on these points in more detail.Lord Filkin
: The latter.Lord Hanningfield
: I shall be pleased to do so. Of course I shall copy it to the other Opposition Front Benchers and to all other participants in the debate.Lord Filkin
: I have added my name and that of my noble friend Lady Sharp of Guildford to this amendment, and I rise to support it. Being excluded from school can often be a cataclysmic and disastrous life-changing event for a child. It is unbelievable to me that it could happen to a child without him or her having the opportunity properly to express his or her side of the story and give his or her views.Baroness Walmsley
1124: I strongly support this amendment, but with one qualification. On the point of the parents in this case, who are the gatekeepers, as the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, put it, I note that the Princess Royal Trust for Carers supports this amendment. One can well imagine the situation of a young carer with a parent with a mental disability, or with an alcohol or drug addiction, where family circumstances are such that parents in that case are not best placed to make that decision, or cannot helpfully do so, at least where there are difficulties involved in the family. Family circumstances are often closely connected with the child's behaviour in school.1124The Earl of Listowel
: I support the amendment, which was moved so persuasively by the noble Baroness. It is crucial that, with all the legislation protecting their rights, children have the ability to exercise those rights. Spelling it out in this way within the education system, which is still not seen as part of the total well-being concept in the Children Act, will help very much.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
1125: I apologise but I did mention that there was one qualification to my support—that is, I have not heard from teachers or governors on this matter. I imagine that they will be mostly very supportive of the amendment because I think that
1125The Earl of Listowel
1126Listening to Learn: As I hope noble Lords would expect, we are entirely sympathetic with the main thrust of the amendment. It is a very important matter. The noble Baroness moved the amendment most eloquently and brought some new and powerful research to our considerations.1126Listening to LearnBaroness Andrews
: I am grateful to my noble friend for her comments. There was much support from all sides of the House for the principles in the amendment and the Government have taken on board the need to involve the children. I noted with satisfaction her comments about the research carried out by Save the Children and I am willing to provide her with a copy. If that can be reflected on between now and Report, it is to be hoped that the Government might themselves propose a suitable amendment if they do not like my wording. I thank those noble Lords who have participated and, meanwhile, beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Turner of Camden
: Whether or not this clause is exactly right, we support a provision of this kind being included in the legislation.Lord Hanningfield
1128: The Committee will recall that the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, and I raised this issue in connection with school trips some time ago. I accepted the Minister's comment to me at that time that very few suits are initiated, but this proposal is wider. I know that there is great anxiety among teachers about such matters. The Government are very committed to encouraging much more physical activity and games in schools and they are putting a lot of money into that. If this is to fructify to the fullest possible extent, it will involve extra-curricular activities by teachers; for example, refereeing matches. I know that they can be at risk for allowing an activity to take place.1128Lord Dearing
11301129: I understand the intent, but the amendment certainly does not achieve its intent, as I shall explain. As yet, we remain unpersuaded that the route to solving the problem is through legislation, although solving it is undoubtedly important. As the Committee knows from previous debates, the issue is as much about the perception of the fear of litigation as of litigation itself. The Better Regulation Task Force was very clear on that. Nevertheless, that does not mean there is no problem, but what is the right way to solve it?11301129Lord Filkin
: I thank those who have supported the amendment and the Minister for his response. It is very difficult to table an appropriate and watertight amendment to cover this issue. My noble friend Lady Sharp and I looked at three or four different alternatives for the opportunity to discuss the matter, before eventually tabling this amendment. If the Government felt that legislation were the right approach, they could bring all their legal brains to bear on producing the right amendment. However, the Government clearly do not. I—and, I am sure, other Members of the Committee—look forward to hearing the ongoing story of the Government's efforts to address the issue, albeit that it is a perception, not a reality. In the mean time, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, by the end of the decade we are committed to offering all children aged seven to 11 the opportunity to study a language. Our investment in the primary workforce and school resources will make this a reality. The key stage 3 national strategy modern foreign languages programme will build on primary learning. These measures, along with the availability of alternative qualifications and vocational options, supported by guidance from schools, will encourage more pupils to make positive choices to study languages at 14.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Is he aware that, even in the few months since learning a foreign language ceased to be obligatory for 14 year-olds, there has been a sharp decline in take-up, with two-thirds of state schools now offering it only as a voluntary subject and three-fifths of children having opted out? Does the Minister agree with the finding of the National Centre for Languages that it is schools with the poorest exam results or those in deprived areas which are most likely to follow this trend? Is not the whole effect becoming increasingly elitist and wholly out of line with the previous Secretary of State's ambition for the UK to provide a global education system, preparing children for life in a global economy?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I am aware, of course, of the National Centre for Languages' research report in 2004. I think it presents a slightly more mixed picture, with great respect, than the one described by the noble Baroness. For example, recent research shows that 44 per cent of primary schools are now offering some form of language learning, 35 per cent of which are doing so in mainstream class time, compared with 20 per cent of schools offering some language learning in 2001. Although it would be too elaborate a reply to give from the Dispatch Box, I can assure the noble Baroness that the intake at the other end into higher education is showing real stability.Lord Triesman
996: My Lords, according to the most recently available figures, 380 secondary teachers of modern foreign languages recruited to the service in
996Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, perhaps I may take the questions in the opposite order and start with primary and go through to secondary. Since launching the languages strategy in 2002, 1,200 new primary language teachers have been trained and £10 million in addition has been committed to supporting the early language learning initiatives. There is, it has to be acknowledged, still a problem with capacity. We shall not make the breakthrough, of course, until the capacity is all there and operative. As to secondary education, the fundamental question lies in encouraging 14 year-olds to take a real interest and to wish to learn languages. A huge amount of the work going in is to try to make the subject more exciting, more relevant and, where possible, more vocationally based.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does my noble friend acknowledge that the admirable ambition of the Government to help children to learn languages at a young age is somewhat compromised by the fact that only 3 per cent of primary schools at the moment offer a weekly foreign language lesson of greater than 20 minutes' duration?Lord Harrison
: My Lords, the point I made about the building of capacity is fundamental. A number of research reports have indicated that the earlier you can teach children a language, the more likely they are to pick it up and follow it through. But, of course, that does not mean anything unless you have a fundamental change at that level. I have been referring to what can best be described as an incremental change. I make no greater claim for it than that it is changing incrementally, but for the better.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, our state secondary schools include more than 200 which are busily specialising in foreign languages. Do not the Government think that it would be a good idea to issue a strategy paper which indicated their own aspirations with respect to particular languages, given that Mandarin is the most populous language in the world, German the most populous language in the EU and that we also have needs in niche areas such as the Middle and Near East?Lord Quirk
997: My Lords, let me express the real sense of pleasure that the Government take in the specialist language schools and in the fact that senior pupils in those schools often go as ambassadors to other local schools to encourage young people in those schools to take up serious study of languages. Looking at the admissions to higher education institutions, it is interesting to note that in a number of areas about which your Lordships' House has been particularly
997Lord Triesman
: My Lords—Baroness O'Neill of Bengarve
: My Lords—Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, I apologise if I have done the wrong thing. Does the Minister agree that in persuading secondary school pupils that languages matter, as he said is very important, teachers must help them to understand that to understand your own country properly you need to understand another country very well, which you cannot do without knowing its language? That is a very important point to make to pupils.Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: Question!Noble Lords
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the belief that English is a perfectly good language throughout Europe, and that everyone will be able to speak it, is simply not the case? If you go to eastern Europe, the main second languages are French or German, not English. People need to understand that, to travel, they need to be able to speak another language.Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: My Lords, I have no disagreement with either of the points the noble Baroness makes.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, will the noble Lord say something about the teaching of Spanish, which is all too low in British schools?Lord Dykes
: My Lords, I am happy to tell the noble Lord that one of the subjects in which there is a real and visible increase in uptake, at all levels of examination in schools and in universities, is Spanish.Lord Triesman
: My Lords—Baroness O'Neill of Bengarve
: My Lords, can the noble Lord assure me, as somebody who is actively engaged in encouraging students at school to study foreign languages, that the Government are doing their utmost to inform young people of the career-enhancing opportunities afforded them if they learn another language, be they doctors, nurses, teachers or engineers? Everybody is looking for people who can speak a second language.Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
: My Lords, I entirely agree. The Careers Service plainly has an important responsibility. The 2004 report of the National Centre for Languages, which I mentioned earlier, deals with this vital and associated matter. It makes the point that there is a perception that languages are not a vocational subject. As a consequence, they are often timetabled against the very subjects with which they should be combined in order to encourage and enthuse people, such as tourism, business studies and leisure industry studies. A good deal of change is needed at school and elsewhere to make sure that the vocational value of languages is fully grasped and that we make the best use of the talents that we have.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, we are unaware of any MoD-owned water purification units being asked for or provided to the countries affected by the recent tsunami. However, Royal Navy engineers assisted with the repair and refurbishment of desalination plant in the Maldives. We are aware that water companies have independently supplied 56 water purification units to Sri Lanka to date.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
: My Lords, while I am grateful for the Minister's Answer, it is also disappointing. Is he aware of, and happy with, the contribution of the United Kingdom? I was informed in a Written Answer in November that the MoD held 187 water purification units and that the water authorities held 170, yet only 56 have been sent. Is the Minister content that we have done all we can to meet water needs in this area of tremendous catastrophe?Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: My Lords, I am afraid I cannot agree with what the noble Lord is suggesting. The response from the UK has been absolutely superb at all levels. Indeed, I think the noble Lord should bear in mind that what matters is what is asked for by the agencies which have a lead in the area, whether they be the World Health Organisation, UNICEF or the individual governments concerned. No request has been made to DfID, as the lead department, for water purification units. If there had been, and DfID had asked the Ministry of Defence to supply some of its own units, then that is what we would have done.Lord Bach
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that I returned from Sri Lanka and the Maldives yesterday? I should like to place on record the thanks from the President of Sri Lanka and the President of the Maldives for the response of Her Majesty's Government and, in particular, for the work that the Royal Navy did at Batticaloa in Sri Lanka and for restoring the generators in the Maldives. That said, our country does not have a formal aid programme to the Maldives. Is the Minister prepared to review the situation so that there is a formal aid programme? If he were to ask for information on Vilufishi and Muli, I suspect that the noble Lord would discover that both those islands still need water purification.Lord Naseby
: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Lord for passing on the thanks of those to whom he has spoken. On his second point, I understand that DfID is making assessments for the long term, and no doubt the matter that he raises will be assessed as well.Lord Bach
: My Lords, I join in congratulating the Government on the speed of their response. Impressed as we all are by the enormous public response, is my noble friend aware that some companies in the industry are saying that there is a case for DfID carrying out urgent evaluation of new technical solutions now on the market and capable of mass production which are medically much more reliable than the traditional water purification technologies? That is particularly important in parts of Indonesia where sewage systems, having collapsed, are contaminating fresh water supplies.Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend. I was not aware of the cases that he mentioned. I know that DfID is assessing what we can do in the long term and any suggestions for improvements in those items will also be considered.Lord Bach
: My Lords, in the light of the tragic case of the dalits—the so-called low-caste Indians denied food and water and shelter in camps for tsunami survivors—will the Minister confirm that efforts will be made to ensure that aid is given regardless of race, class or political affiliation?Lord Astor of Hever
: Yes, my Lords; of course I can give that assurance to the House. It is an important assurance and we stand by it.Lord Bach
: My Lords, perhaps the Minister can help me and many other people. When aid is gathered together either here or overseas, who co-ordinates to which country it should go and, when it gets there, who makes sure that it gets to the right people and does not fall into the wrong hands?Lord Brougham and Vaux
: My Lords, as far as concerns the tsunami, the United Nations has the lead responsibility to co-ordinate the aid and make sure that it gets into the right hands.Lord Bach
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
1006: I shall speak to Amendments Nos. 139L and 139M. I apologise for not being here to move Amendment No. 139J; I was taken aback by the speed with which the fourth Starred Question was dealt with.1006Baroness Morris of Bolton
1007"a community, foundation or voluntary school … a community or foundation special school, or … a maintained nursery school".: I am grateful to the noble Baronesses for explaining the purpose of their amendments. It is very difficult to disagree with the intention behind any of the amendments. Although we have not discussed Amendment No. 139J, we would want to insist that any decision on training is taken by the full senior management team and that the head teacher and governors are at one on the need for training and the importance of its quality. I just wanted to put that on the record.1007"a community, foundation or voluntary school … a community or foundation special school, or … a maintained nursery school".Baroness Andrews
: I thank the Minister and look forward to receiving her letter. I thank her also for making reference to Amendment No. 139J. After all, it is the head who will have daily contact with the staff, and one may well ask how such a scheme could operate without the head's input. I am pleased with the Minister's answer. Training to improve and open new possibilities is important for all staff and for schools to grow their own talent.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: I thank the Minister for her reply and look forward to hearing from her on the issue of children's centres and whether they will be able to provide training to the nursery-qualified teacher and whether the academies will benefit from public funds for training. I notice that she referred to academies as independent schools even though they are built with 92 per cent government money. The Minister knows that I have concerns about that. However, I look forward to her letter and beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
10101009: As the noble Baroness said, Amendment No. 139N would delete the latter part of paragraph (c) of subsection (1), which is in the same form as an exiting provision of the 1994 Act. I remind the noble Baroness that that was Conservative policy at the time. However, we are content that it should go forward.10101009Baroness Andrews
: I thank the Minister for her detailed reply and look forward to receiving further information if she considers that her response contains gaps. It is a probing amendment. We welcome partnership, flexibility and the practical experience gained through school-centred training. The measure builds on previous good Conservative legislation. However, it never does anyone any harm to go back, have another look and ask a few questions. I thank the noble Baroness for her reply. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
10131012: The noble Baroness's amendment would do two things. Although she focused on the second part, I shall also address the first part as it raises some interesting issues. The first part of the noble Baroness's amendment seeks to introduce new criminal offences punishable by fines or imprisonment, or both, for people who breach the limitations set under the Education Act 2002 on the types of work in schools that may be carried out by different types of staff. The second part—to which the
10131012Baroness Andrews
: Will the Minister clarify something for me? Am I right to understand that she is rejecting the first part of my amendment so that the Government can continue to allow people to teach subjects for which they are not qualified?Baroness Walmsley
: Absolutely not. I am saying that as we have worked through the provisions for workforce reform, putting the higher teaching assistants in place, and so on, that has been accompanied by sets of regulations. I am sure that the noble Baroness will remember the debate that we had in 2002 on those regulations, which make it clear what tasks are permissible for people supporting teachers in the classroom. If, for any reason, mistakes are made and people are deployed in an inappropriate manner, a whole range of things can be done that do not involve criminalising the teacher or person involved.Baroness Andrews
: I thank the Minister for that qualification. Certainly, on the second part of my amendment, I am aware of the robust system that is in place to ensure that unqualified people do not masquerade as teachers. It was helpful to have that on the record. I hope that other teachers, certainly the head teacher, would notice if someone who was unqualified was in charge of children. I thank the Minister for her reply, and I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
10171016"For a Department that believes in evidence-based policy the DfES has remarkably little evidence to support the changes it is making".1015: Clause 98 introduces a sizable and significant change to the mechanism for the funding of schools in England. The background to this provision is the schools funding crisis of two years ago. Due to the mismanagement in Whitehall of the changes to the then formula, we were left with the undignified sight of schools without budgets and even teachers and support staff being laid off. This eventually led to the then Secretary of State apologising for the fiasco. I do not intend to go over old ground, but I stress once more, as I did at Second Reading, that we simply cannot afford a repeat of those circumstances as we embark once again on changes to the funding system.10171016"For a Department that believes in evidence-based policy the DfES has remarkably little evidence to support the changes it is making".1015Lord Hanningfield
Official Report"to provide Financial assistance there is no intention of moving away from the current situation where the great bulk of support for schools and LEAs—the £22 billion to which he referred—is directed through the local government finance system. That arrangement will remain in place".—[Official Report"In introducing this consolidated power"—10191018: I rise to speak to the amendments standing in my name in this group. Before doing so, I declare my interest as leader of a local authority and as being married to someone who has been a teacher for many years.Official Report"to provide Financial assistance there is no intention of moving away from the current situation where the great bulk of support for schools and LEAs—the £22 billion to which he referred—is directed through the local government finance system. That arrangement will remain in place".—[Official Report"In introducing this consolidated power"—10191018Lord Smith of Leigh
"the loss of LEAs' ability to make any executive decisions about schools' funding in their areas""There is no proper evidential basis for saying that change is merited, and no way of being confident that the changed system will adequately address any problems that exist"."The DfES reacted to perceptions of crisis rather than an actual widespread funding crisis, and in the solution that it has provided it has changed the nature of the funding allocation, the role of LEAs in education at the local level, and the role of the DfES".1020: I want to speak in support of my noble friend Lord Smith of Leigh. First, I congratulate the Government on the excellent way in which funding has increased over the past seven years—over 30 per cent in real terms. I am confident that the money is worth investing for our future in that it will provide better education for children."the loss of LEAs' ability to make any executive decisions about schools' funding in their areas""There is no proper evidential basis for saying that change is merited, and no way of being confident that the changed system will adequately address any problems that exist"."The DfES reacted to perceptions of crisis rather than an actual widespread funding crisis, and in the solution that it has provided it has changed the nature of the funding allocation, the role of LEAs in education at the local level, and the role of the DfES".1020Baroness David
1021: I regret that my friend the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Portsmouth cannot be in his place today. In his absence I would like to add a Church of England perspective to the matter before us in relation to Clause 98. As the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, has noted, it is complex, but nevertheless, it goes a long way towards addressing a major problem that we in the Church of England know schools face on budgeting.1021The Lord Bishop of Manchester
: We on these Benches, too, have major concerns about Clause 98 and Schedule 16 in so far as they take away the power of the local authority to do its best for its local schools. We see it as part of the incremental removal of power from local authorities and the further centralisation of power over education in the guise of giving schools more power to spend their own money.Baroness Walmsley
1022: In my local church on Sunday the first reading was from Proverbs, which extolled the virtue of wisdom. One of the wisdoms in this House is not to speak on a subject you know little about in the presence of those who are highly expert. I have listened with great respect and some awe to the speeches that have been made.1022Lord Dearing
10241023: Like my noble friend Lord Smith, I am interested in the impact that the changes in this Bill will have on the role of local education authorities, although I do not think that I have reached such a pessimistic conclusion as he has. It must be right in the current context of public services to want to give individual schools as much authority as possible. A three-year funding mechanism surely goes hand in hand with giving them more executive responsibility. So I very much support the thrust of this clause and hope that the Committee will also.10241023Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: I support the noble Lords, Lord Hanningfield and Lord Smith, in raising real concerns about Clause 98. There is no doubt that everyone would welcome support for greater autonomy for schools, assured budgets and more money. What is of concern is understanding what benefits the clause proposes for the quality of education. There is no justification for the proposal and, at this stage, no evidence of educational benefits. That view is supported by the House of Commons Education Select Committee. I am most concerned about the lack of public consultation and the lateness with which the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, has been given information about how the proposal will be implemented. I am concerned about the scant information that is available and the lack not only of public consultation but of consultation with local authorities about how their role is to be changed.Lord Ouseley
1025: I shall speak briefly. The Minister knows my sympathy for what the Government are striving to do here but, listening to the debate, I also had some sympathy with what the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Leigh, said.1025The Earl of Listowel
1030102910281027"guaranteed three year funding is precisely what heads need if they are going to deliver higher standards".1026"We will remove the LEA role in funding and managing schools".: Clause 98 introduces Schedule 16, which puts in place powers that will enable the Secretary of State to require local authorities to determine school budgets up to three years in advance. It deals with the provision of ring-fenced grant to local authorities for the purposes of funding their schools, and it repeals for England the existing reserve power to set an authority's minimum schools budget where the budget proposed is inadequate. All those powers are permissive, and we will consult fully before putting in place regulations under any of them. A consultation document on three-year academic year budgets in England will be published shortly.1030102910281027"guaranteed three year funding is precisely what heads need if they are going to deliver higher standards".1026"We will remove the LEA role in funding and managing schools".Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for the opportunity to clarify. I was saying that I could not see the evidence of educational benefit from the proposal in Clause 98. It is important that we consider that at this stage. That matter has not been clarified, and I am still not convinced. I readily accept the proposition that the Minister put to me, but that is not what I was saying. I was talking about the educational benefits.Lord Ouseley
: I thank the noble Lord, Lord Ouseley, for his helpful interjection. Perhaps we should not protract that debate at this point.Lord Filkin
1031: I hope that the Minister will go on to answer more of the questions that I posed. He mentioned the security of budgets several times.
1031Lord Hanningfield
: There is no such thing as a job for life, in the public or private sector, as we all know now. However, a school that is in the situation that the noble Lord described, with the head and the governors conceding that their rolls are falling, will have a reasonably good feel for likely future losses. It will make high and low assumptions.Lord Filkin
: School numbers can change dramatically in a short time. Often, if a school is losing pupils and parents suspect that the school may be closed, they will often vote early with their feet to get their children into a different school. A school that starts in September with a particular number of pupils may end the year with a substantially smaller number. Whatever system we have, we cannot legislate for that uncertainty.Lord Smith of Leigh
1032: It is a fact that, in this House, we cannot make the world stand still. However, through these measures, we can substantially reduce the uncertainty.1032Lord Filkin
: I interrupt my noble friend for a word of clarification, following on from what the noble Lord, Lord Ouseley, said.Lord Peston
"The changes are not a radical step forward, but the sensible, rational, next steps needed to develop greater equity, clarity and predictability in the system"."It will remove also the major areas of uncertainty in the funding fog as to who is to hold account the basic level of their funding".1034"Why our two associations support the introduction of dedicated school budgets for the LEA and three-year budgets for the school is because it will bring clarity and predictability".1033: My noble friend is right to ask that question, as I skated over it in my response. There will be no change from the current situation, in which local authorities distribute the funding to schools according to a formula that they determine in a manner consistent with central government guidance. It is essentially a continuation of a local authority decision on how to distribute; that is, the "principles" that should drive the distribution—not whether the local authority likes school A or school B. That is consistent with government guidance and will continue unchanged."The changes are not a radical step forward, but the sensible, rational, next steps needed to develop greater equity, clarity and predictability in the system"."It will remove also the major areas of uncertainty in the funding fog as to who is to hold account the basic level of their funding".1034"Why our two associations support the introduction of dedicated school budgets for the LEA and three-year budgets for the school is because it will bring clarity and predictability".1033Lord Filkin
: Before my noble friend sits down, I would like to probe him on a couple more points. He talks about the logic of the Government's position as an extension of policy. Yet why in 2001 did the then Minister for schools standards state exactly the opposite?Lord Smith of Leigh
1035: I am grateful to my noble friend for giving way. But is that not the point? In
1035Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: As complex as education funding is, I am sure that it is not quite as complicated as health funding. My point is that when schools have lost money because of decisions from central government, they have looked to local authorities for additional support. In the new arrangements that will not happen. We should be clear about that.Lord Smith of Leigh
1036: I shall be brief. My noble friend Lord Hunt's interjection about it being better to be straight got to the nub of it. This has clarity and a certain intellectual honesty as a consequence. I take the noble Lord's point about governance. It is important that governance can cope with those issues, to which I am sure we will return in the future.1036Lord Filkin
: Perhaps I may ask a couple of brief questions about the reply given by the Minister. Am I right in understanding that the ring-fencing will apply to the entire school budget; that is, the money given to schools and the funds spent centrally by the LEA, and that the starting point will be what is in the budget at the moment? An LEA which has been contributing an extra £10 million a year to its schools is effectively now stuck with that commitment because it will become part of the central ring-fencing. They will lose any ability to cut back on the commitment if children's services need it.Lord Lucas
1037: Perhaps I may put it like this: up to a point, Lord Copper—and I mean no disrespect. In the situation described by the noble Lord, if for the sake of argument a local authority has been putting money into schools over and above the schools formula spending share, the SFSS—let us say £10 million, a rather large amount—while in the medium term the
1037Lord Filkin
: Perhaps I may press the Minister a little further. If an LEA has been spending an extra £10 million, those schools will do relatively badly because that extra £10 million will be absorbed over time. The government grant will start at £10 million higher and that particular authority will get the money. However, will it receive the extra funding in each budget?Lord Lucas
1038: On the noble Lord's last point, that is exactly so. The additional moneys that local authorities choose to put into schools in their area will be completely within their discretion.1038Lord Filkin
: I do not want to start another detailed discussion, but it is worth pursuing this a little further. What is likely to happen to local authorities? They will not put money into schools actually to fund basic five-to-16-years education, rather they will fund the extended school way. In partnership with schools, they will support extended schooling, family development, social services and children's issues on each school campus. I sought to make that point when I introduced this debate.Lord Hanningfield
: I should not venture to display my forecasting skills on decisions over which I have absolutely no control whatever. The noble Lord may well be right, in which case what he says will give some comfort to the noble Lord, Lord Dearing. In truth, I do not think that any of us really knows. It may be that it will be exactly as the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, has set out: LEAs which still have a passion for raising the educational and other attainments of their children will choose to behave in the way he has described, or it may be a more mixed picture. I think that I would put my money on it being a more mixed one, given the diversity of local government and the range of local politics. However, I could be wrong and I have no knowledge either way.Lord Filkin
: Before the moment passes, I rise only to accept the offer of a note from the noble Lord.Lord Lucas
1039: We have had a very extensive debate on an extremely complicated issue. Like myself, the noble Lord, Lord Smith, is the leader of a local authority and therefore becomes involved in these things in considerable detail. Wearing my other hat as the leader of a local authority and not speaking as a Member of this House, at the moment even a small school usually knows where to go. I am often
1039Lord Hanningfield
: I am genuinely sorry for interrupting the noble Lord. We do not want to alter in any way the relationship between schools and the noble Lord when he is wearing his hat as the leader of a local authority. Schools should continue to go to their local authorities, which will have the roles of leadership and support for raising the educational attainment of the children in their area. I expect that schools will continue to turn to their local authority leaders.Lord Filkin
: The Committee will probably have had enough of this debate today. We shall analyse everything that has been said. I hope that the Minister will write to me and others, as he has promised. With that, I shall not pursue my opposition to the clause standing part of the Bill today.Lord Hanningileld
1041: If the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, will bear with me, I shall speak without my notes. This is an issue on which I have a policy responsibility as well as the pleasure of taking the Bill through. It is the kind of issue that would genuinely benefit from the opportunity for a fuller debate than that offered even by the Committee stage or Second Reading.1041Lord Filkin
: The Minister has threatened another letter; may I have a copy? The noble Lord is right to say that there is an issue of resource and, as the Minister said, to get that resource early to the child will make a fantastic difference. However, it is my experience that there is not enough resource around to meet the needs of these children.Lord Dearing
1042: I am grateful for the noble Lord's reply. Yes, I would love to spend another few hours reading his letters.1042Lord Lucas
10451044: As the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, indicated, the intention behind the first amendment is to ensure that local schools and academies work together to achieve co-ordinated admission arrangements which are straightforward, transparent and fair for local children and parents. We agree. That is precisely why we already require academies, as part of their funding agreement which they have to sign with the Secretary of State, to have admission arrangements which are consistent with the school admissions code of practice and with admissions law more widely. The words "consistent with" are, in fact, more powerful than those which apply to maintained schools.10451044Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for his reassurances in this respect. However, it strikes me that the control over the admissions policy relies to a very great extent on the funding agreement and the funding contract with the academy. What sanctions are there if the academy should move away from that in a few years' time? For example, what sanctions does the department intend should be placed on the schools in Bristol and Haringey that I gave as examples? It is quite clear that they have targeted students from particular areas where academic attainment is likely to be higher than in the poorer parts of the catchment area.Baroness Walmsley
: I will chance my arm and no doubt correct what I say in a letter. Essentially, I would not have expected that the literalism of a sanction was enormously necessary. To put it another way, we have a body set up under statute as a charitable body, which is utterly reliant on central government for its funding. It cannot survive without that. If, as part of its foundation agreement with that totally dominant funding body—the central state—it has a set of clear agreements that it has to behave in a certain way, it is my experience of public or charitable bodies that it will not lightly ignore those issues.Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for that. I am interested to know whether the department will be asking any questions of the schools in Bristol and Haringey—the examples that I have given. In the mean time, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
105010491048: I am grateful to the noble Lord for giving me the opportunity to explain, as he has invited me to do, some of the implications of the powers that we seek and the impact that his own amendments will have on the proposals. I will start by saying, because this is the way that he started, that this is in no way a second bite of the cherry that was snatched away from us in the 2002 Bill. The decision-making powers that we are proposing to give the schools forums are very different from the powers that were proposed in that Bill. This is important to the noble Lords on the Liberal Benches—in this Bill we are proposing to take away powers that are currently held by the Secretary of State and not elected members. There is no intention to transfer powers from elected members. I will explain that in some detail.105010491048Baroness Andrews
Hansard1051Hansard: I thank the Minister for that reply. A lot of ground has been covered, and there has been a very detailed response. I shall certainly wish to read Hansard1051HansardLord Livsey of Talgarth
10541053 I agree with one of the objectives outlined by the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley: the concern to ensure that the funding which a school receives should reflect the different cost basis that the school experiences, often driven by differences in the age, abilities, aptitude and needs of its pupils. However, we do not believe that this amendment is necessary. Let me try to explain why.10541053Lord Filkin
Hansard: I thank the Minister for his reassurances that my amendment is unnecessary. When my copy of HansardBaroness Walmsley
Every Child Matters10571056: This is the first of a number of important groups of amendments about targets. Clause 99 maintains the current statutory accountability regime whereby the Secretary of State requires local education authorities, through regulations, to set annual targets for the educational performance of pupils for whom they are responsible and to notify those targets to her for England.Every Child Matters10571056Lord Filkin
: I was particularly pleased to hear what the Minister said on devolution. It is interesting to observe that two different systems are operating and in the past 18 months the results in Wales have overtaken England. Perhaps this can be achieved in two different ways by two different recipes. We have a probing amendment here on which we want to test the Government. I acknowledge what the Minister said, with his examples on level 4 targets reaching 80 per cent of achievement, which is to be welcomed.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
1059: In moving that Clause 99 does not stand part of the Bill, I will be adding to what the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, has just said. Clause 99 enables the Secretary of State to make regulations requiring local authorities to set annual targets in respect of schools. There are a number of pertinent questions as to why the Secretary of State should possess such powers and oppose such targets these days.1059Lord Hanningfield
1060: To start with, this is not a new power. This does not impose additional burdens either on local education authorities or schools. Clause 99 maintains the current statutory accountability regime, whereby the Secretary of State requires local education authorities, through regulations, to set annual targets for the educational performance of pupils for which they are responsible and to notify those targets to her. In that respect, I do not imagine that there is any debate between us that local authorities should be setting targets for the schools in their area, both in the specific and the aggregate. That is part of the "challenge" function, to be matched hopefully by the "support" function that the local authority will provide. Perhaps the debate is about the role of the Secretary of State rather than the role of the local authority.1060Lord Filkin
: But the targets may be as obvious as the fact that a school must have a playing field. That is the point that we are trying to make. Whether one is talking about targets or trying to improve performance, that is obvious everywhere in local authorities and, if that is the case, local people should be left to get on with it. The Secretary of State might as well prescribe that a school should have doors. It is accepted that targets are part of the system, but it is far better if they are set at a local level because people there know the circumstances and they know what they are trying to improve.Lord Hanningfield
: As I understand it, the provision is included in the Bill because, if local authorities are the only ones to set the targets, there will be very large discrepancies across the country. I was a governor of a secondary school in Cambridge and I noticed that, depending on where they came from, the people applying for jobs at the school had totally different concepts of what was required in terms of standards and so on. Unless I have misunderstood, that is partly what the Bill touches on. It seems to me to be a question of having the same standards across the country.Lord Hunt of Chesterton
10621061: I always find two interruptions at once difficult to handle, particularly when they seem to be on different points. Be that as it may, I shall try to address both.10621061Lord Filkin
: From these Benches there is no denying that we believe in targets. We were the ones who first promoted them. But I believe it is time for the Secretary of State to abdicate any involvement in them. I am entering a complicated area, but most local authorities have what is called a public sector agreement. In Essex, it is worth around £25 million. It contains education targets, and every large local authority has education targets set by the Secretary of State. Not one local authority in the whole country, however excellent, will achieve them because the targets are set too high.Lord Hanningfield
1063: I was reassured to hear from the Minister that the intervention of the Secretary of State will be what I should perhaps describe as a last resort and that the process will be consultative. But, ultimately, the Bill gives the Secretary of State the power to impose changes on targets that have been agreed between the schools and the LEAs and aggregated together to achieve the LEAs' targets.1063Baroness Walmsley
: I thank the noble Baroness. I am surprised that that doubt exists. This is the first time that I have risen to give unqualified support to the Government's position. I come from Hull and my title is Lord Dearing of Kingston-upon-Hull. I fear that in my city the aspirations of the local authority are not as high as they should be. For years we have plodded along at the bottom of the league table. It is fair in those circumstances for a Secretary of State to say, if it was justified and if he felt that the aspirations were not there, "Chums, we should aim to do better for the children of this city. Come on, let's discuss this". I hope that there would be agreement to aim for a higher figure.Lord Dearing
: I could see that the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, was itching to intervene. I would agree with him that if the LEAs only were setting the targets, it might be necessary for the Secretary of State to challenge them. But if those targets came from the schools and were aggregated into the local authority targets, it would become much less necessary, because every school that I know wants the best for its children. The teaching force, the assistants and all the non-teaching staff work towards that. We must trust the schools to be able to set challenging but achievable targets. If those elements were put together, the LEAs would provide the context. The Secretary of State should provide the context and the resources for schools to do that. The noble Lord, Lord Sutherland, wishes to challenge me, too.Baroness Walmsley
1064: The noble Baroness is doubly kind to the Cross-Benchers. I must support the line offered by the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, in support of the Government, by sharing my experience of having to declare the first "failing school" in England. In that school there was, effectively, a collusion of ignorance and lack of aspiration between the local authority, the school and those who were responsible for the governance of the school. Such situations are, happily, not common, but in that case the difficulty was not simply in the school; it went right through the system. Other local authorities have been
1064Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: That is the most powerful argument that has been put against the amendment, and convinces me to withdraw it. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
1066: Although my speaking notes might say "no", I am inclined to say "yes", but with qualifications. Perhaps I may explain that in more detail. In the two previous groups of amendments we debated our stance on targets. I shall not repeat that, given that we each know our positions, even if we cannot persuade each other.1066Lord Filkin
: I thank the Minister for that reply. He has stated that reviews may take place regularly anyway, but the link between the targets and rising standards is not reviewed. It is assumed that the rising standards are a result of the targets, as the Minister has said tonight. I do not think it is unreasonable to scrutinise that assumption very carefully. There may be other reasons. Wales, for example, has carried out a review. We have heard from my noble friend Lord Livsey of Talgarth that Wales is not doing better. Does the Minister want to reply?Baroness Walmsley
: As the noble Baroness knows, I am absolutely clear that the lift in educational attainment in England, which has been remarkable, has, in part, been the product of the challenge and ambition that targets set. It is a fact of life that if one does not have a target, one just administers; whereas a sensible target motivates one to think about what needs to be changed to improve. I am a passionate zealot for targets.Lord Filkin
: I have to agree with the noble Lord that targets can be very helpful. No one who has been to Weight Watchers would argue with that. However, the part that targets play, along with other factors, has to be considered. In the mean time, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
1069: I support everything the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, has said. In questioning whether Clause 100 stands part of the Bill, we wish to understand why the Government have decided to abolish both the annual parents' meeting and the governors' report. I wish to talk also to Amendment
1069Lord Hanningfield
: I speak in support of these amendments for two reasons: first, the set of arguments already given in support of them; but, secondly—a point made earlier in debate from all sides of the Chamber—the Bill seems to be moving in the direction of downgrading the involvement of both parents and governors in how schools are run. There may well be practical problems about organising parents' meetings. I know of one head teacher who, to establish contact with parents, went out to hand the bills through doors and to post them through letterboxes; although she soon found that in certain parts of town you go with an escort before you do that. But that was the determination of the head teacher. I feel this Bill does not support that determination; we are moving away from it.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: I wish also to support the amendment, in particular on the situation for Wales—and we have clarified the situation as far as concerns devolution. But we have some concerns. Clause 100 demands that the 2002 Act makes the requirement for a governors' report and an annual parents' meeting to apply only in Wales, with, as other noble Lords have said, the Assembly having an order-making power to remove these requirements in due course.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
1071: I hope my noble friend will be prepared to have a look at these amendments, although I am not sure that the amendments that we are debating are necessarily the right way forward. Earlier today we discussed the question of funding for schools and the desirability of giving schools three years' advance budgets as part of the process of giving more responsibility to individual school governing bodies.1071Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
1072: I know that we are coming to a close, so I shall be very brief, because we have already heard some extremely important points. I am strongly in favour of retaining meetings with parents and governors and of having a real input from parents to the school activities. I want to give two examples that have shown a way to involve parents much more in the future well-being of their children and other children.1072Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: I intervene briefly to say that if the Government insist on Clauses 100 and 101, I urge that they accept Amendments Nos. 145AB, 145A—except that it should specify the governing body, rather than the headmaster—145B and 146, which I do not think has been mentioned, in which the governing body, in partnership with the headmaster should, in addition to what the Secretary of State may prescribe, decide the content of the school profile. I ask the Government to think about that.Lord Dearing
: As the chairman of the committee that introduced the Taylor report in the 1970s, which created school governing bodies, I have been reluctant to join in this debate until now. but to do away with an annual general meeting in the way that the Government propose is ridiculous. We need every support to encourage parents to serve on governing bodies. If you do not give them an opportunity to come to an annual meeting and to read an annual report, they will be less interested than ever. I plead with the Government after what has been said from all sides of the House this evening to take the proposal back and think again.Lord Taylor of Blackburn
1073: I very much agree with those Members of the Committee who want to do away with Clause 100. I mostly ally myself with the noble Lord, Lord Hunt: it is a matter of responsibility and a proper relationship between parents and governors in the school. People may not attend the meeting, but if they want it, it is there. There is a connection and a way to talk.1073Lord Lucas
107610751074: I am very grateful to all Members of the Committee who have spoken in this important and passionate debate—I should expect no less. I shall try to keep my remarks short, because I know that the House is under pressure of other business, but I must take issue with some points. At the same time, I tell all Members of the Committee who have spoken that the Government are listening intently to what is said this evening. I hope that I can give some reassurances and a little extra explanation about why we have taken this route. I hope that it will make sense if I do so.107610751074Baroness Andrews
: The noble Baroness said a great deal about how governors will be able to communicate with parents but almost nothing about how parents will be able to communicate with governors. Do I understand from her reference that she is asking us to take comfort from the fact that parents can call a meeting if they are unhappy about what is going on? Does the noble Baroness really think that it is satisfactory to wait until there is a head of displeasure among parents sufficient to call such a meeting in place of one that takes place regularly?Lord Elton
: No, we would expect schools not to wait until such a point but to be on the alert for what parents felt and to ensure that their governors were involved. A great deal has been said in this short debate about governors. I reiterate that we are listening closely to what has been said.Baroness Andrews
1077: Having listened very carefully to the debate, perhaps I may ask the noble Baroness a question before she responds. She says that the annual report is not sufficient or not working well. Is that really a good reason to throw it out? The noble Baroness said clearly that there were other ways of doing things, but surely it would be very sensible to maintain the provision in the Bill rather than get rid of it, until the new ways have established themselves. I should have thought that you could have the best of both worlds. I do not think that the noble Baroness
1077Baroness Byford
: We are searching for new and better ways. The annual report, a very long document, has presented schools and parents with problems in the past. We do not want to throw it out without thinking very hard about what the school profile might achieve. However, as I said, we are listening hard. The Committee has made clear its views on the importance of parents in the school relationship and the importance of finding better ways of communicating with them. We are listening.Baroness Andrews
: Throwing out something that is okay but could be better before we know what will be better is the wrong way to go about this. It is terribly important that we keep that line of accountability and, as my noble friend said, that we keep that accessibility for parents to the governors. There must be a way for parents, without having to appear pushy or tiresome, to talk to and deal with the governors. Once a year is little enough.Lord Lucas
1078: I thank the Minister for going so quickly through so much information. I agreed with some of the things that she said but disagreed with others.1078Baroness Walmsley
: Is the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, going to speak to Amendment No. 145A? It is part of the same group.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Lyell)
: I am.Lord Hanningfield
: If the noble Lord wants to speak to the amendment, it might be convenient if we stopped now.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: I wish to speak to Amendment No. 145A. Given the strength of feeling, I wish to test the opinion of the Committee.Lord Hanningfield
: We have not come to it yet.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: I thought that the noble Lord was going to call it.Lord Hanningfield
: No.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: This may be an appropriate time to move that the House do now resume for the Statement and the prayer. In moving the Motion, I suggest that the Committee stage of the Education Bill begin immediately following the conclusion of the prayer to annul the Fire and Rescue Services (National Framework) (England) Order 2004 but not before 8.15 p.m.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, with permission, a Statement will be repeated later today. It will come at some convenient time around 6.45 p.m., will be entitled "Homes for All: Five-year Plan", and will be repeated by my noble friend Lord Rooker.Lord Grocott
: My Lords—Lord Rennard
: My Lords—Lord Rennard
: My Lords, I suspect that many of us have an interest in this issue; I certainly do. Does the Minister agree in principle that the relatively modest amounts paid to political parties through state funding in this scheme—which is currently accepted by the Labour Party, Conservative Party, the nationalist parties and the Liberal Democrat Party—is a better way of financing aspects of our democracy than for some political parties to be heavily dependent on a few big donations from a few very rich millionaires? Such donations may sometimes be seen to influence public policy or appointments or indeed, occasionally, government transactions.Lord Rennard
1001: My Lords, I also declare an obvious interest as Presiding Officer for the National Assembly for Wales where, by our standing orders and by the Government of Wales Act 1998, members of subject committees are charged with a policy development role. Although we may expend, as we do, some of our limited budget from the Assembly Parliamentary Service to support them, that is no real alternative to policy development within parties. If and when the great work of my noble friend
1001Lord Elis-Thomas
: My Lords—Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, since I am not a member of a political party, I will not declare an interest. Bearing in mind that we are told that people have lost interest in political parties and do not trust all of them, should people who stand for Parliament as individuals and independents also be included—after all, our system is still based on electing people and not parties? Is there not a case, on the grounds of equity, for seeing that taxpayers' money is also available to individuals to develop their policies to put before the electorate?Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords—Lord Stoddart of Swindon
109210911090: My Lords, I shall do my best to answer the points raised. Those points that I cannot answer today I shall be happy to cover through correspondence.109210911090Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I cannot answer that question without notice. The Statement that I repeated today relates exclusively to England. I am an English Minister and although I speak for the Government in this place, I do not have the necessary information regarding Wales to answer the question. However, I will try to find the information and write to the noble Lord.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the effect is to price first-time buyers on the margin out of buying. That is obvious: the figures that the noble Lord just gave speak for themselves. This matter is constantly discussed in the Government. We are aware of the difficulty. There has been a substantial increase in taxation—there is no question about that. The figures are all there. They are published by the Chancellor, so there is no secret, but the effect on the margin for first-time buyers is to price them out of buying when it is the last, final straw that stops the sale. The Government are discussing that issue because we are looking for all ways that we can. However, decisions on these matters are for the Chancellor.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I will try to explain without the noble Earl having to venture to Manchester. There are enormous variations in the density—the number of dwellings per hectare around the country. There are award-winning schemes with densities of dwellings per hectare in the 80s and 90s where people queue up to buy and to rent to get into quality developments—both from environmental and other points of view in terms of design. High-density need not militate against good quality design in houses. The highest density housing area in the country is around Kensington and Chelsea, so that proves that high density does not militate against quality in a good environment.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I can say at the outset that I do not seek to hide the fact that the increase in home ownership shot up under the "right to buy" policy, which was introduced by the government led by the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher. That was probably the greatest single act of redistribution of wealth in this country that occurred over decades. Like most good policies, it was invented in Birmingham, where it operated at various times during the 1960s. It took quite a while for my party to come to terms with that change—I accept that—but nevertheless we have embraced it and, like converts, we have the zeal to push it even further. That is why we are looking at new ways in which to let people share the aspirations of others.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, first, I pay tribute to my noble friend, as I did in the Statement, and to her leadership of the task force. The answer to her point on ring-fencing for rural communities is, "Yes". But what I mentioned in the Statement goes beyond that by giving local authorities more powers to ring-fence for local communities and to ensure that those houses are available for the next generation, which is crucial but has been the problem in the past. We lose those houses after the first or second sale. There are issues here on which consultation is necessary, but that is our intention.Lord Rooker
1098: My Lords, my comments on the first two parts of the noble Baroness's question, on council tax and stamp duty, are basically as before. However, I note that she has raised the issue and I am grateful that she has done so.1098Lord Rooker
: My Lords, as I said, we are an unbalanced country, housing, economically and population wise—everyone knows that. What we cannot do—you hear this on the radio and see it in the media—is order where people will live and work. That is not possible; we do not live in that kind of society.Lord Rooker
1104: My Lords, I shall try to deal with some of the points briefly and I shall write to noble Lords about those matters I do not cover. I shall first address the points made by my noble friend Lord Wedderburn because they are the easiest to answer. My noble friend has the old document. The document that we are debating tonight for approval was published in December 2004 and relates to the 2005–06 framework. My noble friend was, I believe, referring to the 2004–05 framework.1104Lord Rooker
Sustainable Communities: Homes for All: My Lords, with permission, I will repeat a Statement made earlier today in the other place by my right honourable friend the Deputy Prime Minister on the publication of the Sustainable Communities: Homes for AllThe Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
"new and more effective arrangements",1103"the power to direct the use of fire and rescue facilities and assets",1102The Fire and Rescue Service National Framework: My Lords, I am conscious of the hour and of the urgency of other business that this House has to consider. Therefore, I wish to speak very briefly in putting some rather important points to my noble friend on the Front Bench."new and more effective arrangements",1103"the power to direct the use of fire and rescue facilities and assets",1102The Fire and Rescue Service National FrameworkLord Wedderburn of Charlton
1095: My Lords, the Minister's Statement was rather like one of my grandchildren's Christmas stockings, in that it appeared to lack a certain economic coherence, although the Minister himself moved towards economic coherence when he talked about not going to 90 percent of people in home ownership. It would have been nice if he had made the tribute that the big increase from 50 per cent to 70 per cent, which was thoroughly desirable, was very largely due to Conservative policies. I believe that he implied that.1095Lord Marlesford
: My Lords, the Minister was talking about staircasing, but the problem for first-time home buyers is that they have been desperately trying to walk up an escalator that is going the wrong way, especially in relation to stamp duty. I know that the Minister said that that was a matter for the Chancellor and ultimately it is, in the same way as is value added tax on improvements. However, we cannot talk about housing and have a serious Statement mentioning first-time buyers without at least addressing the question of stamp duty.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
Why they have decided not to pay compensation to Angela Cannings following the quashing of her conviction for the murder of two of her children. asked Her Majesty's Government:
Why they have decided not to pay compensation to Angela Cannings following the quashing of her conviction for the murder of two of her children.Lord Lamont of Lerwick
1004: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Does she agree that it would be nonsense to argue, as it has been hinted in certain newspapers that the Home Office has argued, that an independent expert witness does not come within the ambit of a public body when it is the Crown Prosecution Service that decides whether to prosecute and decides the selection of an expert witness?1004Lord Lamont of Lerwick
1003: My Lords, will the Minister do something to help my noble friend Lord Glentoran?
1003Lord Tebbit
1093: My Lords, the 15 minute Statement could have been significantly shorter if the selective party-political abuse had been omitted. However, in the spirit that the Deputy Prime Minister chose and on the 40th anniversary of the death of Winston Churchill, whose 1951 government built 300,000 houses a year, which far exceeds the target that the Government have loudly announced today, why is the proportion of "non-decent homes in
1093Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
: My Lords, I share my noble friend's disappointment in that. Our villages really do need help to develop into sustainable communities. That is not just affordable housing. We need to build new employment in villages and we need to build the houses for those who will have that employment. What I also felt was missing from the Statement was initiatives on moving economic activity north. This endless pressure to build houses in the south-east comes from the economic success we are having here. We need to continue to find ways of reviving economic activity in the north and doing what we can to push it up there. I have always liked the idea of moving the House of Commons to Stoke-on-Trent. I thought last week that would have the added advantage that we could move the world dance championship to Gerrards Cross and depress house prices there.Lord Lucas
1094: My Lords, the Minister's enthusiasm for the Statement was infectious and we all enjoyed it. However, could he help me with one problem that I find difficult to understand? He said that he wants a1094Earl Ferrers
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the Northern Ireland political parties are a special interest group? They are exempt from most of the rules and regulations that apply to political parties in the rest of the United Kingdom. I believe that state funding for them—I in no way disagree with my noble friend Lord Strathclyde on the overall situation— could go a long way to helping the situation, which the Lord President understands very well.Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, while the Government are pondering this issue, will they also make it plain that they do not support the wholesale introduction of state funding for all political parties?Lord Strathclyde
: My Lords, although I thank the Minister for that not very informative answer, am I right in thinking that the Government are in favour in principle of representation in the legislature of significant bodies of opinion? Does she agree that the Green Party, of which I have the pleasure of being a member, which under fairer methods of election than exist for Westminster has serious representation in the European Parliament and the Greater London Assembly and a block of eight members in the Scottish Parliament, deserves better in the United Kingdom Parliament than one elderly self-appointed Peer? If so, will the Government please do something about it very soon?Lord Beaumont of Whitley
To ask Her Majesty's Government whether they will implement the recommendation of the Electoral Commission in its report on the funding of political parties that there should be "a modest expansion of the policy development grant scheme" to political parties with representation in the European and Scottish Parliaments and the Welsh and Northern Ireland Assemblies.: My Lords, I beg leave to ask the Question standing in my name on the Order Paper. In doing so, I declare my obvious interest as the sole representative of the Green Party at Westminster.To ask Her Majesty's Government whether they will implement the recommendation of the Electoral Commission in its report on the funding of political parties that there should be "a modest expansion of the policy development grant scheme" to political parties with representation in the European and Scottish Parliaments and the Welsh and Northern Ireland Assemblies.Lord Beaumont of Whitley
The triumph of ideals must be organised"?: My Lords, does the Minister agree with the maxim of the former organiser of the Labour Party, Dame Sarah Barker, that:
The triumph of ideals must be organised"?Lord McNally
: My Lords, although I support the view of the noble Lord, Lord Beaumont, will the Government also give serious consideration to some of the other suggestions in the Electoral Commission's report, in particular the proposal to lower the cap on national expenditure in general elections and give tax relief to small donations to political parties?Lord Goodhart
1096: My Lords, I welcome my noble friend's Statement, and I thank him for including in it a substantial number of the recommendations of the Home Ownership Task Force, which I chaired in 2003. That taskforce was made up of a wide range of people, including the users, funders and providers of social housing. The recommendations within the report are certainly very welcome, although it is a pity that they have to occur within a Statement. I hope that we can have a full debate on the issue. I am going to the sustainable communities conference in Manchester next week, although after the announcement of 13 daughter documents I am wondering whether I should not stay, because I might miss something.1096Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde
: My Lords, as I indicated, the Government will indeed be considering the report carefully. It is important to note that the commission is not proposing any radical new systems and was at pains to point that out. Of course, as the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, said, there are a number of different ideas within the report, which we shall of course consider with great care.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am not entirely sure that I understand the noble Lord's question, for which I apologise. I will write to the noble Lord to indicate our view with greater clarity.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I do not believe that any noble Lords in their contributions were suggesting any form of hypocrisy. There is an important issue to be debated, relating to balance and the relationship between state funding, public money and the role of political parties, which I described in my reply to the noble Lord, Lord Strathclyde. I am sure that we will discuss that issue further, both in your Lordships' House and in another place.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am not sure that I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, for the clarification. However, I accept that these are complicated issues and, as the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran, knows, we are consulting.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the noble Lord takes a novel approach to the issue of state funding—for individuals to develop policies. I am not entirely certain that I agree with his analysis; nor do I agree with his statement that people have lost interest. If the noble Lord reads the Electoral Commission's report, he will see that it mentions that we have a vibrant democracy, which we shall see if and when we have a general election.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, in a sense, the noble Lord indicates the point I made earlier that one is trying to seek balance in the way political parties are funded. The Government's position is clear. We introduced a policy development grant to support the development of policy by major political parties for very good reasons. There is a much broader debate, which is not for now, about state funding.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the noble Lord is too self-deprecating. He does an eminent job in representing the Green Party at Westminster. I hear what he says and recognise the implication. If we wish to have a thriving and vibrant democracy we need carefully to consider ensuring that we have the right kind of policy development for our political parties. On that basis, as I have already indicated, the Government are considering very carefully the recommendations put forward.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am not entirely sure what question the noble Lord was asking me, but I might interpret the noble Lord's remarks to answer that this Government are of course committed to policy development. Indeed, in 2002 we introduced the policy development grant as a result of indications that political parties spent money on their campaigning and perhaps were not able to spend as much on the kind of development of policy that is important if one is going to the electorate.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, as the noble Lord knows well, there are clear issues to be discussed in relation to state funding. He knows very well the Government's position on that. When looking at democracy, it is important to ensure that political parties have support—hence the policy development grants, which have been largely and broadly welcomed. It is also important to look at the opportunities for people to indicate their support for political parties by being able to make donations, and to ensure that public money is used wisely and well.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the Government have recently received the Electoral Commission's report on the funding of political parties and are carefully considering its recommendations. We are not yet in a position to make any firm decision on particular recommendations.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
1097"we will allow local authorities to ring-fence land so thai it can be used for rural affordable housing to meet local needs".: My Lords, I gave way to the noble Baroness, Lady Dean—it was right that she should have intervened as no one from their Benches had done so—but she slightly stole my thunder. I hope that the House will forgive me if I continue the discussion on the provision of affordable housing in rural areas.1097"we will allow local authorities to ring-fence land so thai it can be used for rural affordable housing to meet local needs".Baroness Byford
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply. I appreciate and welcome the fact that he has offered to respond to all questions in writing—some of them were quite detailed. For today's purposes, I thank the House for the debate and I beg leave to withdraw the Motion.Baroness Hanham
Baroness Hanham1100"front line responders at a local level","emergency services, local authorities and front line responders at a local level".rose to move, That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty praying that the order, laid before the House on 14 December 2004, be annulled (S.I. 2004/3217).Baroness Hanham1100"front line responders at a local level","emergency services, local authorities and front line responders at a local level".Baroness Hanham
10871086"If you are a young couple struggling to make ends meet and get your feet on the housing ladder, it's very difficult".1085: My Lords, first I thank the Minister for repeating this rather euphoric Statement made in the other place earlier this afternoon, and for sending me a copy in advance of the Deputy Prime Minister's comments.10871086"If you are a young couple struggling to make ends meet and get your feet on the housing ladder, it's very difficult".1085Baroness Hanham
ex gratia: My Lords, I should say straightaway that there is very obvious sympathy for Mrs Cannings' position. But the noble Lord will know, and remember well, from the days when—albeit a while ago now—he was in government, that these are very difficult decisions to make. It is for those reasons that we have the statutory scheme and the ex gratiaBaroness Scotland of Asthal
Official Reportex gratia: My Lords, Mrs Angela Cannings did not meet the criteria set out within the provisions of Section 133 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 for a statutory payment of compensation; nor did she meet the criteria for an Official Reportex gratiaThe Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
1101: My Lords, I feel rather at sea here, as I am surrounded by veterans of the 2004 Act. I am here as a newcomer, but I will do
1101Baroness Scott of Needham Market
10891088: My Lords, I thank the Minister for repeating the Statement, with its bewildering level of statistics and initiatives. If there was any doubt as to the proximity of an election, it becomes less all the time.10891088Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, there is enough time to hear from the Liberal Democrat Benches and from the independent Member behind me.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, is it clear that the NCOs' and the officers' uniforms will also be made in China, or was that a different order which might be made in the UK?Lord Berkeley
2: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that Answer, but is he aware that oilseed crops in the ground now for harvest this summer could produce the feedstock for biodiesel, if the Government and the oil companies had the will to implement the renewable transport fuel obligation that is on the statute book? That is exactly the kind of initiative that could show that the Government are serious about their wish to put climate change at the top of the environmental agenda. Is my noble friend also aware—he will not need reminding—that CO2Lord Carter
Baroness Ashton of Upholland: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.Baroness Ashton of UphollandThe Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: Does the noble Lord recognise that his amendment would extend to preventing a Jehovah's Witness refusing a blood transfusion that would save his life? That would surely be an irrational decision, but the amendment would prevent it being a valid decision. Does the noble Lord accept that consequence?Lord Goodhart
1146: No, I do not, which is why I suggest "wholly irrational"—inconceivable to everyone else in the community. Experience and time has led to the acceptance of the beliefs of Jehovah's Witnesses by courts. I am talking about the wholly irrational.1146Lord Brennan
: I am obliged to the noble Lord for giving way. I have listened with great attention and wonder whether he can help. What is the reasoned approach to the distinction between what is irrational and wholly irrational?Lord Campbell of Alloway
1147: "Irrational" may be unwise; "wholly irrational" is inconceivable in terms of giving it effect. You would not accept it in your own family or community. Why should the state accept it as a right of citizens? There is a plain difference. The word "wholly" is used clearly and has force.1147Lord Brennan
1153"if it is expressly motivated by a desire to be assisted to bring about P's death".Burke"This would add a very real practical safeguard, making it less likely that the withdrawal or withholding of ANH will be judged to be in the best interests of anyone who is not in the very narrow category of cases in which such withholding or withdrawal would not be in breach of Article 3 ECHR (identified in BurkeBurke"A further safeguard which could be added to the Bill in the light of a judgement in Burke"more as a declaratory statement about the intention behind the Bill for the avoidance of doubt, similar to clause 58, than as an additional substantive safeguard".1152"Proving the motive of a person making a best interests determination will in practice be extremely difficult, however, and we, therefore, regard the proposed amendment"—"what would be in the person's best interest and, in particular, as to the matters","the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so"."past and present wishes and feelings … beliefs and values that would be likely to influence","the person making the determination must consider all the relevant circumstances".1151"if a proxy wanted to refuse consent to a treatment and the doctor thought that this was with the intention of murder or manslaughter then the doctor could continue to treat".11501149"I very much welcome the continuing dialogue in which many of us who have been concerned to ensure this important Bill carries the necessary safeguards have had with the government. I
1149"We believe an amendment is needed to send a clear signal that the Bill does not give validity to expressly suicidal advance decisions, and have proposed an amendment that we believe would not overburden doctors in these difficult cases"."makes explicit that the Bill does not give authority to doctors, proxies or other third parties considering a patient's best interests to make any decision motivated by a desire to kill the person. In doing so it provides a welcome and necessary safeguard but with the important caveat, however, that it does not cover advance decisions"."We should talk about the subject [of euthanasia] in Britain— and quickly, before any legislation slips through Parliament legalising euthanasia by the back door, as it nearly did when the Mental Capacity Bill was debated by Parliament in December. This week, a House of Lords committee will discuss the Bill, which now comes with a hastily drafted government amendment that is supposed to prevent the killing of patients through neglect. But, by focusing on motivation rather than actions, the amendment further confuses the issue.""The 22 babies listed in the study suffered from extreme spina bifida"."No action was taken over any of the deaths, although euthanasia is technically legal in Holland only for patients aged over 12.Journal of Medicine1148Daily Telegraph: The list of amendments before the Committee is complex and, indeed, extensive. There are 10 amendments in this group, some of which cover ground which the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, touched upon, and other issues. However, he is right that these are crucial questions that cut to the heart of the Bill.1153"if it is expressly motivated by a desire to be assisted to bring about P's death".Burke"This would add a very real practical safeguard, making it less likely that the withdrawal or withholding of ANH will be judged to be in the best interests of anyone who is not in the very narrow category of cases in which such withholding or withdrawal would not be in breach of Article 3 ECHR (identified in BurkeBurke"A further safeguard which could be added to the Bill in the light of a judgement in Burke"more as a declaratory statement about the intention behind the Bill for the avoidance of doubt, similar to clause 58, than as an additional substantive safeguard".1152"Proving the motive of a person making a best interests determination will in practice be extremely difficult, however, and we, therefore, regard the proposed amendment"—"what would be in the person's best interest and, in particular, as to the matters","the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so"."past and present wishes and feelings … beliefs and values that would be likely to influence","the person making the determination must consider all the relevant circumstances".1151"if a proxy wanted to refuse consent to a treatment and the doctor thought that this was with the intention of murder or manslaughter then the doctor could continue to treat".11501149"I very much welcome the continuing dialogue in which many of us who have been concerned to ensure this important Bill carries the necessary safeguards have had with the government. I
1149"We believe an amendment is needed to send a clear signal that the Bill does not give validity to expressly suicidal advance decisions, and have proposed an amendment that we believe would not overburden doctors in these difficult cases"."makes explicit that the Bill does not give authority to doctors, proxies or other third parties considering a patient's best interests to make any decision motivated by a desire to kill the person. In doing so it provides a welcome and necessary safeguard but with the important caveat, however, that it does not cover advance decisions"."We should talk about the subject [of euthanasia] in Britain— and quickly, before any legislation slips through Parliament legalising euthanasia by the back door, as it nearly did when the Mental Capacity Bill was debated by Parliament in December. This week, a House of Lords committee will discuss the Bill, which now comes with a hastily drafted government amendment that is supposed to prevent the killing of patients through neglect. But, by focusing on motivation rather than actions, the amendment further confuses the issue.""The 22 babies listed in the study suffered from extreme spina bifida"."No action was taken over any of the deaths, although euthanasia is technically legal in Holland only for patients aged over 12.Journal of Medicine1148Daily TelegraphLord Alton of Liverpool
1154"A person who aids, abets, counsels or procures the suicide of another, or attempt by another to commit suicide shall be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years"."The rule of law whereby it is a crime for a person to commit suicide, is hereby abrogated"."For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that nothing in this Act is to be taken to affect the law relating to murder or manslaughter or the operation of section 2 of the Suicide Act 1961 (c. 60) (assisting suicide)"."Many of the fears which have been raised with us about possible connections between the draft Bill and euthanasia appear to be misplaced. Nevertheless, in acknowledgement of the strength of feeling that clearly exists on this issue and in the hope that such misplaced fears do not detract attention from the many worthwhile aspects of the draft Bill, we recommend that additional assurance should be offered by the inclusion of a paragraph in the Statement of Principles we have recommended, or by an additional clause in the Bill, to make clear that nothing in the Bill permits euthanasia or alters the law relating to it".: I had the privilege of chairing the Joint Select Committee on the draft Mental Incapacity Bill, and I was pleased that the Government accepted the great majority of our recommendations and the recommendation to change the title to the Mental Capacity Bill.1154"A person who aids, abets, counsels or procures the suicide of another, or attempt by another to commit suicide shall be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years"."The rule of law whereby it is a crime for a person to commit suicide, is hereby abrogated"."For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that nothing in this Act is to be taken to affect the law relating to murder or manslaughter or the operation of section 2 of the Suicide Act 1961 (c. 60) (assisting suicide)"."Many of the fears which have been raised with us about possible connections between the draft Bill and euthanasia appear to be misplaced. Nevertheless, in acknowledgement of the strength of feeling that clearly exists on this issue and in the hope that such misplaced fears do not detract attention from the many worthwhile aspects of the draft Bill, we recommend that additional assurance should be offered by the inclusion of a paragraph in the Statement of Principles we have recommended, or by an additional clause in the Bill, to make clear that nothing in the Bill permits euthanasia or alters the law relating to it".Lord Carter
: It does not need to be considered, because it is completely illegal under Section 2 of the Suicide Act—but if it were attempted, it would also be wholly irrational.Lord Brennan
: I just wonder whether the noble Lord, as a Roman Catholic—as am I—means that it is "wholly immoral" or "wholly irrational", because we have a view about suicide There is no need for him to intervene again, but this is our difficulty. When I read the Suicide Act, I thought that, in the case of an advance decision to commit suicide, such as that in the example given by the noble Lord, Lord Alton—I am sure that it was hypothetical—no doctor could ever execute that, because he could pray in aid Section 2 of the Suicide Act. That is the crucial point. Does that Act cover that argument?Lord Carter
1155: The noble Lord, Lord Brennan, rightly concluded his powerful speech by referring to this subject as being "serious". I concur with that. I fully understand the philosophical concerns that underlie the first amendment in particular. It is trying to bring to our attention the necessity to keep a righteous and appropriate balance between the exercise of personal autonomy and the public good. From a philosophical perspective, we are now dealing with what the late Isaiah Berlin used to term "incommensurables"—by which he meant a clash not between right and wrong or good and evil but between two competing goods. I find the concept of incommensurables enormously helpful. In a situation where we have a clash between two apparent goods, how do we decide what to do? I entirely agree with the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, that we try to deal with it by careful and reasoned debate. In this particular case, we must also look at the general thrust of what the Bill is trying to achieve.1155The Lord Bishop of St Albans
11571156: I rise to speak to Amendment No. 17, which is in the group. I have listened with great care and attention to all four preceding speeches, which precisely encapsulated the detailed arguments considered by the Joint Committee. Having listened to a wide range of advice—including that from faith groups—the Joint Committee concluded, for the reasons so eloquently set out by the noble Lord, Lord Carter, that the Bill did not encourage euthanasia by the back door, and that it should be based on the practical implementation of some very deeply held principles.11571156Baroness Barker
HansardHansard"If a proxy wanted to refuse consent to a treatment and the doctor thought that this was with the intention of murder or manslaughter then the doctor could continue to treat".11591158"The concern on which we have focussed in our most recent discussions with the Lord Chancellor relates to valid written advance decisions by persons who are not dying but who want to kill themselves. Faced with an unconscious suicidal patent whose life they could save, doctors might be forced to do nothing because of the legally binding advance decision forbidding them to treat. They are then having to stand by and effectively assist a suicide when they could stop it succeeding. We believe that an amendment is needed to send a clear signal that the Bill does not give validity to expressly suicidal advance decisions".: I support Amendments Nos. 11,97 and 99 standing in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Alton. However, I want, first, to congratulate the Minister on what I understand to be exemplary consultation and discussion on these issues. The circulation of papers at the earliest stage consistent with the speedy timetable of this House is very different from the unfortunate scenes in the other place, about which I read, during the dying days of discussion on the Bill there. Archbishops" letters were fluttering like confetti down the green Benches and Members were holding them up saying, "I have a letter here and it is all going to be all right. It will be sorted out in the Lords". We are beginning to see that today.HansardHansard"If a proxy wanted to refuse consent to a treatment and the doctor thought that this was with the intention of murder or manslaughter then the doctor could continue to treat".11591158"The concern on which we have focussed in our most recent discussions with the Lord Chancellor relates to valid written advance decisions by persons who are not dying but who want to kill themselves. Faced with an unconscious suicidal patent whose life they could save, doctors might be forced to do nothing because of the legally binding advance decision forbidding them to treat. They are then having to stand by and effectively assist a suicide when they could stop it succeeding. We believe that an amendment is needed to send a clear signal that the Bill does not give validity to expressly suicidal advance decisions".Lord Patten
1160: I speak as a relic of the 1994 committee that put forward the idea of having advance directives. As I listen to the debate and read amendments still to come, I get the feeling that we are becoming increasingly mired in incredible complexity.1160Lord Habgood
1161"that the decision could not reasonably be treated as binding, having regard to all the circumstances".: As my noble and right reverend friend Lord Habgood has said, I had the privilege of chairing the Select Committee on medical ethics that reported to the House in 1994. Virtually all the provisions and recommendations in the report of that committee were accepted by the House.1161"that the decision could not reasonably be treated as binding, having regard to all the circumstances".Lord Walton of Detchant
1163"the opinion of the medical practitioner"."to protect innocent third parties","A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision".1162"new provision relating to persons who lack capacity".: I have tried to speak three times. First, I endorse fully the comments of my noble friend Lord Brennan about the way in which the Bill has been handled thus far by our Front Bench. It is an example of how good work can be done. I thank the Minister very much.1163"the opinion of the medical practitioner"."to protect innocent third parties","A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision".1162"new provision relating to persons who lack capacity".Lord Christopher
1164: Many points have been made, and I do not want to take up much time repeating them. The Bill tries to encapsulate good decision-making to enhance the dignity of the individual. I feel much more comfortable with government Amendment No. 13, which changes the wording in the Bill, because I believe—I hope that every lawyer will agree—that it means that doctors cannot be asked to kill a patient. They cannot make the judgment that a person would be better off dead and go about ending that person's life. That has been my motivation and that of others who have tabled amendments.1164Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
1165"by a desire to bring about his death".: I would like some clarification on the Government's Amendment No. 13; in particular, what is meant by the person making the determination not being motivated,
1165"by a desire to bring about his death".The Lord Bishop of Oxford
"is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision"."A person must be assumed to have capacity unless it is established that he lacks capacity".: I would like to deal with the amendments in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Brennan. The concept of irrationality is an unsafe criterion for the jurisdiction with which the clause deals. With respect, the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, was right when he put to the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, the illustration of the Jehovah's Witness whose decision not to take a blood transfusion would be caught by his amendment."is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision"."A person must be assumed to have capacity unless it is established that he lacks capacity".Lord Mayhew of Twysden
1166: I should like to comment briefly on Amendment No. 1, which stands in the name of my noble friend Lord Brennan and which deals with the principles of the Bill. It is here described what is meant by a person lacking capacity and points out that a person who makes a wholly irrational decision would not be considered by the Act.1166Lord Turnberg
1167: I did not take part in the Second Reading debate but I have listened to the discussion today with enormous interest. I have been very impressed by the quality of thinking behind what all noble Lords have said.1167Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: I intervene briefly to support what the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Oxford said. What he said in a few well chosen words goes right to the heart of the problem raised by the Bill. The government amendment introducing into the Bill the question of someone's motive is not a protection to anyone. You cannot establish at law a motive—it cannot be done—and there is a basic confusion behind the government amendment, and those who have argued for it, between motive and intention.Lord St John of Fawsley
1169mens rea"that it will be in the person's interests for his life to continue".1168: I endorse everything that was said by the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, in relation to Amendment No. 17, to which my name has been added. I do not propose to comment to any great extent on the amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, except to say that I believe it is flawed in at least one sense in that it seems to countenance the idea of a wholly irrational yet wise decision. I find that a rather difficult concept to grasp, quite apart from the difficulties highlighted by my noble and learned friend Lord Mayhew, the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, and others.1169mens rea"that it will be in the person's interests for his life to continue".1168Earl Howe
"'Motive' was distinguished … from 'intention', as the desire prompting an act, a state of mind which the law cannot take into account. The point will be made clearer by an example. X fires a gun and kills Y. His intention in firing the gun is to bring about the death of Y. His motive may be to inherit Y's fortune, marry Y's wife, or merely hatred of Y. Motive is thus the reason which leads X to form his intention of killing Y. Whether this motive is good or bad is irrelevant as far"—"The only possible way of discovering a man's intention is by looking at what he actually did and by considering what must have appeared to him at the time the natural consequences of his conduct"."the common maxim which is sometimes stated as if it were a positive rule of law, that a man must be held to intend the natural consequences of his act, I do not think that the rule in question is really a rule of law further or otherwise than it is a rule of common sense".History of the Criminal Law: I apologise to the House for intervening again, which I think I am entitled to do, but the point is of such crucial importance that it needs to be examined most carefully. I am extremely grateful to my noble friend who has just spoken forgiving such importance to this point and lending the weight of his very considerable authority to it."'Motive' was distinguished … from 'intention', as the desire prompting an act, a state of mind which the law cannot take into account. The point will be made clearer by an example. X fires a gun and kills Y. His intention in firing the gun is to bring about the death of Y. His motive may be to inherit Y's fortune, marry Y's wife, or merely hatred of Y. Motive is thus the reason which leads X to form his intention of killing Y. Whether this motive is good or bad is irrelevant as far"—"The only possible way of discovering a man's intention is by looking at what he actually did and by considering what must have appeared to him at the time the natural consequences of his conduct"."the common maxim which is sometimes stated as if it were a positive rule of law, that a man must be held to intend the natural consequences of his act, I do not think that the rule in question is really a rule of law further or otherwise than it is a rule of common sense".History of the Criminal LawLord St John of Fawsley
: I am indeed listening to the noble Lord with great intent. The fact that I was not looking at the noble Lord does not mean that I was not listening.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1170"Whether this motive is good or bad is irrelevant as far as the law is concerned, although it may well be relevant for the moralist".: I feel that I was justified in feeling that I was being deprived of the approving glances of the Minister, which up to that point I had been basking in. If I may continue:
1170"Whether this motive is good or bad is irrelevant as far as the law is concerned, although it may well be relevant for the moralist".Lord St John of Fawsley
1173actus reusmens rea11721171: I apologise to the noble Lord if I failed to look at him with the appropriate glance, but I was indeed listening with great interest. I am sorry that he was modest in not telling us immediately about those words. I would be very grateful to borrow the book from the noble Lord at some point.1173actus reusmens rea11721171Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. I regard that as heaping a coal of fire on my head, as I was a little brusque in my disappointment that I was no longer enjoying the favour of her countenance. Could she go a little further today and say that she will reconsider the question of motive and intention? It is of crucial importance that we get the right wording. "Intention", "motive" and "purpose" mean different things. I have the greatest respect for the most reverend Primate the Archbishop of Cardiff but, as far as I know, the Ordinary of Cardiff, though of great distinction, is not an infallible authority on theology, the law, or anything else for that matter.Lord St John of Fawsley
: As I have already indicated to the noble Lord, Lord St John of Fawsley, I intend to consider everything that has been said to me today. I fully appreciate that the noble Lord is looking at the issues of intent, purpose and motive. He will know far better than I that "intention" and "purpose" are used interchangeably in the courts; both cover the mental element of a crime, if I can describe it as such. They both cover the foresight of inevitable consequences. Motive, as the noble Earl, Lord Howe, said, is why people commit crimes—which is a different thing indeed. But we refer not to "motive" in Amendment No. 13 but to being "motivated". That is quite important, because we are considering best interests—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I do not understand the difference between having a motive and being "motivated by". Am I just very stupid?The Earl of Onslow
1174: I could never conceive of the noble Earl as being stupid at all. But if Members of the Committee look where we have positioned Amendment No. 13—in the best interests clause—they will see that what we are saying is that, when making such determinations, the person should not be motivated or driven. There are other words that we could probably look for on that basis. I am trying to distinguish between that and a motive in law for what one is doing.1174Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: On the point of government Amendment No. 13, I believe that the Committee is grateful to the Minister for the amount of intellectual energy that she has put into trying to help us to resolve the issue. But she will have heard the anxiety expressed from all sides of your Lordships' House during this Committee stage about the distinction between the word that the Government have chosen to use—"motive"— and the words used by the noble Lord, Lord St John of Fawsley, and the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Oxford, such as "purpose" or "intent". Would she accept that the discussion should continue at Report stage and say that she would not rule out revising the choice of word for one of those preferred options that have been mentioned by so many Members of the Committee?Lord Alton of Liverpool
"must not be actuated by the intention of bringing about death",1175: Forgive me for speaking again, but may I say how much I agree with what the
"must not be actuated by the intention of bringing about death",1175Lord Walton of Detchant
: I assure the Committee that if there were a simple way through this, I would have taken it a very long time ago. The difficulty which the noble Lord, Lord Walton, has in a sense walked into is precisely the difficulty of what English law means. The noble Lord will know very well—and I apologise if I seem to be teaching him to suck eggs—that when choosing a particular form of treatment the clinician knows the consequences involved, which may have what is known in clinical circles as "double effect". That means that a treatment may have the purpose of helping to support the individual, but may also have implications in shortening life by a few hours, and so on.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"motivated by a desire to bring about his death",: I am sorry not to have intervened before, but I am in the process of losing my voice. One further difficulty that I find about "motivation", apart from the obvious legal distinction between "motive" and "intent", is that overall the motivation of the clinician who seeks the best interests of the patient, with all the help that he can get, is the motivation of compassion. That point has been made frequently, and I entirely agree with it. That is the clinician's motive; and to say that he is not,
"motivated by a desire to bring about his death",Baroness Warnock
1176: Will the Minister confirm whether I am right? We are considering best
1176Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: Yes, the noble Baroness is correct. As I said, we seek to be clear regarding the concept of best interest and life-sustaining treatment. We have sought to capture what I term the "moral" notion of best interest. It is an objective test; it does not involve what I might consider is in the best interest but what actually is in the best interest. It is not a judgment about another person's life but concerns treatment and what is in that person's best interest. That is the critical issue. As I have indicated, we do not seek to overturn the law or to put clinicians in an impossible position. English law has a very particular understanding of, for example, the word "purpose".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1177: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. I assure her I accept entirely that she has no intention—nor would she have the power—to overturn the basis of English law. Those of us who have expressed concern about this matter are concerned that this amendment does not make clear what the basis of English law is, and does not take it sufficiently into account.1177Lord St John of Fawsley
1181"Prima facie, every adult has the right and capacity to decide whether or not he will accept medical treatment, even if a refusal may risk permanent injury to his health or even lead to premature death. Furthermore, it matters not whether the reasons for this refusal were rational or irrational, unknown or even non-existent. This is so, notwithstanding the very strong public interest in preserving the life and health of all citizens".T (Adult: Refusal of Treatment)[1992]11801179"the sole purpose of causing harm to, or bringing about the death of, the person about whose welfare the decision is made".1178"causing harm to, or bringing about the death of, the person".: As I think the noble Lord will know, I am open to discussions with any noble Lord who wishes to discuss matters with me. I hesitate to force the noble and right reverend Lord, Lord Habgood, or, indeed, the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Oxford to do so, but I would be delighted to discuss the matter with them. However, that discussion would take place in the context of the way in which we have approached this matter. I wish to be clear about that.1181"Prima facie, every adult has the right and capacity to decide whether or not he will accept medical treatment, even if a refusal may risk permanent injury to his health or even lead to premature death. Furthermore, it matters not whether the reasons for this refusal were rational or irrational, unknown or even non-existent. This is so, notwithstanding the very strong public interest in preserving the life and health of all citizens".T (Adult: Refusal of Treatment)[1992]11801179"the sole purpose of causing harm to, or bringing about the death of, the person about whose welfare the decision is made".1178"causing harm to, or bringing about the death of, the person".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1182: It is an important point. The Minister was good enough to organise a meeting last week that a number of noble Lords were able to attend, addressed by Dr Michael Wilks, the chairman of the BMA's ethical committee. During that discussion upstairs, he said that doctors must act free from pressure where advance refusals are involved. Given the concern of many people in the profession that they might be expected to do things against their will, will she give further thought to writing a conscience clause into the Bill, rather than leaving the status quo?1182Lord Alton of Liverpool
: The question was raised of an expressly stated suicidal advance decision and whether a practitioner would be protected by Clause 2 of the 1961 Act.Lord Carter
: I was going to address that point. I will consider what the noble Lord, Lord Alton, said, but he will appreciate that we have consulted the organisations that represent doctors in our discussions about whether there is a need to do further work around the conscientious objection clause. We will continue to consult them; they take responsibility on the issue. Thus far, they are very clear that the conscientious objection clauses work extremely well for clinicians and physicians. If he thinks that that is not right, we can discuss it separately, but that is their view, and they think that it will be covered in the Bill. I do not have any resistance to the issue, but the best way forward appears to be to leave matters as they are, because they work well. I am always reluctant to add to a Bill something that then needs to be interpreted if we have good practice that works extremely well.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Not quite. The advance decision is not refusing treatment, but an express wish to be helped to commit suicide.Lord Carter
1183: If an advance decision read, "I wish to kill myself, that is not an advance decision. An advance decision is a refusal of certain treatment. It has to be treatment-specific and circumstance-specific, so it would have to say, "I do not wish to have antibiotics if I am in the final stages of terminal cancer", and so on. The example that we have been using that gives greater clarity is blood transfusions; you might state that you did not wish to have them. You cannot say "I wish to die" or "I wish to kill myself"; that is not an advance decision, and a clinician would not act on it in that way. I hope that the combination of those two pieces of information goes some way to clarifying the issue.1183Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I simply wished to look the noble Baroness fully in the face, as my noble friend Lord St John of Fawsley would wish on every occasion.Lord Patten
1184: The term is "countenance" this afternoon, which is a very good word.1184Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1185: I am grateful to all noble Lords who have taken part in the debate. It has been extremely interesting to note the range of opinion on so many fundamental issues in the Bill.1185Lord Brennan
: I thank the noble Lord for giving way. My intention was not to say that they should not be in writing—obviously matters of this kind have to be—but that they should not be legally binding. They should be not legal documents but advisory documents to help the doctors to make their decision.Lord Habgood
mens rea: I am grateful for that correction to what I intended to say, which is that they should not be legally binding.mens reaLord Brennan
1186: I apologise for intervening again and am grateful to the noble Lord for giving way. Does he not agree that there is a crucial distinction between motive and intention? If I have a loaded pistol and I point it at someone's head and pull the trigger, it is quite clear that I intend to kill that person. The motive is the reason why I want to do that. It might be, for instance, that it is in self-defence. Therefore, if one
1186Lord Goodhart
: I did not suggest that we should use the word "intention". I was inviting careful consideration of the appropriate form of words on what is a very difficult question.Lord Brennan
: The government amendment does not use the word "purpose", but "motive".Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I meant to say from "motive" to "intention".Lord Goodhart
: I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Brennan
1188"an act done, or decision made … on behalf of a person who lacks capacity"."An act done, or decision made … for or on behalf of a person who lacks capacity must be done, or made, in his best interests".: I do indeed see the point. I was grateful for the recognition by the noble Earl that the incapacitated person is put centre stage of the Bill and that "best interests" be an objective test— the critical point made by the noble Earl.1188"an act done, or decision made … on behalf of a person who lacks capacity"."An act done, or decision made … for or on behalf of a person who lacks capacity must be done, or made, in his best interests".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Of course, I shall withdraw the amendment although I find the Minister's reply a little baffling. If I have heard correctly, the noble Baroness said that advance decisions are not about acts done for or on behalf of someone else. I should have thought that the operation of Clauses 24 to 26 was very much about that. If one takes the withdrawal of treatment from an incapacitated person, that is a positive act done for someone else in accordance with an advance decision. As the Minister rightly said, the crucial difference is that it is the patient's own decision, rather than that of the doctor, which brings it about. The operation of those clauses means that by the very fact of the person being mentally incapacitated, someone else acts on his or her behalf. Someone else withdraws treatment—if that is what the decision says. That is a positive act done for or on behalf of that person. I am not sure that I am entirely with the noble Baroness. I do not know whether she wishes to add anything.Earl Howe
: Perhaps I may try again. When the clinician follows that advance decision, he is not doing so on behalf of someone who lacks the capacity to make the decision. He is following the advance directive of the person who had capacity and made the decision. When is it done on behalf of a person? I have made the decision: it has not been made for me or on my behalf by the doctor. I am probably into semantics of the worst kind but I want to assure the noble Earl that it works in the context of the Bill and works, therefore, in law.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am happy to reflect on the Minister's words for which I am grateful. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
"the person's past and present wishes and feelings … the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity, and … the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so".1191: I was glad to add my name to the amendment, because throughout our discussions we have agreed that no assumptions should be made that life has less value for people who have difficulty in making decisions or need support to make those decisions."the person's past and present wishes and feelings … the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity, and … the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so".1191Lord Carter
1192: I rise to ask a question based on curiosity—and probably a certain amount of ignorance. I believe that the Roman Catholic doctrine on death is rather different from that of the Anglican and other Churches. They tend on the whole to strive much more officiously to keep alive, in a way that possibly—I look heavily at the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Oxford to see if he can help me here— other Churches and religions would not. Would that
1192The Earl of Onslow
"Thou shalt not kill; but need'st not strive Officiously to keep alive".: As I have been called on, that phrase comes, paradoxically, from an agnostic 19th-century poet called Clough. He was quoted by a pope:
"Thou shalt not kill; but need'st not strive Officiously to keep alive".The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: I add to that point that the evidence received by the Select Committee on Medical Ethics, which I chaired and which reported in 1994, made it clear that the Anglican, Roman Catholic and Protestant Churches, the Muslims and many others agreed that there were circumstances when it was totally inappropriate to continue with futile treatment, even if that resulted in death. The one group that did not agree with the principle that anyone had the right to refuse treatment, even if it resulted in death, was the Jewish faith. They said that it was contrary to rabbinical law. They were the only group which dissented in that situation.Lord Walton of Detchant
: I am grateful for that enlightenment. How, therefore, does even that Jewish element of faith affect the anti-discrimination views of the noble Baroness, which I think we all agree with? How should it affect them?The Earl of Onslow
: I support the amendment for some of the reasons we have just heard. The amendment would provide a balance to the prevalent discrimination that people are actually unaware they are involved in.Baroness Greengross
1193: I added my name to the amendment because it so important to pull clinicians up short and make sure that they offer a treatment to somebody that they would have offered to another person who had full capacity, without being prejudiced by their perception that the person does not have capacity. Clinicians must have the right attitude
1193Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: I support the amendment. I will not repeat all the arguments that have been so ably put, but the amendment is very necessary in a society where, sadly, people with severe disabilities are not seen as having the same value as others. The amendment would rectify the balance, as the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, said.Baroness Wilkins
a priori: Any comments from me are otiose, but I emphasise my agreement with the points that have been made so very well, particularly that made by the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross. Given that we start off the Bill with this excellent set of principles, it is entirely right and appropriate to include an unambiguous declaratory statement of an ethical nature.a prioriEarl Howe
1194: I have the papal doctrine available, and can send the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, a copy. However, I have no knowledge of rabbinical law. I wish the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, good luck in responding to that point. I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Walton, and we will endeavour to establish the specifics around the issue, in order to assist the noble Earl in the passage of the Bill.1194Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: If we are not careful, we shall find ourselves being told, as we were last Thursday, that under the Disability Discrimination Bill depression is not regarded as disabling because it does not last for 12 months but that it can be dealt with under the Mental Capacity Bill. We now hear from the Minister that the Mental Capacity Bill cannot handle it and the issue is left to the Disability Discrimination Bill.Lord Carter
1195Hansard: I was not present at the deliberations on the Disability Discrimination Bill, but I will read 1195HansardBaroness Ashton of Upholland
: I want to say for the record that I was not implying that the Minister was wrong. I was signalling that the Bill influences the guidance and the guidance influences the message which goes out to the profession. The professional guidance affects their registration. That is what they adhere to and that is what will pull them up short. The amendment is about the way that a decision is made and that means it must be properly recorded in the case records and so forth. In going back to audit the notes, one would then be able to compare and make sure that there was no discrimination.Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness. Legislation is not the only way to influence the code because my commitment to alter it is absolute. We will do that. I will happily discuss whether we can do more, but say simply to the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, that I cannot accept this amendment because I cannot do so without all the other things that are required.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
11971196: I must confess that in my preparation for the Bill I did not come prepared to discuss Papal Bulls and, by the absence of my noble friend Lady Neuberger, neither did I come to discuss rabbinical law. However, I want to begin by addressing the key, important points made by the noble Earl, Lord Onslow.11971196Baroness Barker
: I must tell noble Lords that if Amendment No. 4 is agreed to I cannot call Amendment No. 5 by reason of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Baroness Turner of Camden)
: My Amendment No. 5 is grouped with the amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg. It was designed to achieve the same purpose, which is to flag up the concerns that he has so ably expressed. It may be of assistance to the Minister to know that these concerns have been raised with us by respected bodies that are genuinely unclear about what the Bill means. Those bodies include the Academy of Medical Sciences, the MRC, the Royal College of Physicians and the Wellcome Trust.Earl Howe
1199: I am very grateful to noble Lords for bringing forward what I know are concerns of distinguished medical bodies. We are sympathetic to these concerns and are grateful to have the opportunity to clarify matters and to tell noble Lords what our intent will be. It is also good that they have welcomed the research clauses of the Bill. We look forward to debating them in due course.1199Baroness Andrews
: I am most grateful for that very full explanation and the willingness of my noble friend the Minister to look at this issue again. Of course, I am delighted to withdraw my amendment.Lord Turnberg
: Briefly, I would like to stress the point made by the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, about the need to have a very wide range of ways of helping people to communicate, which involves communication aids and relevant professionals, such as speech and language therapists. Like the noble Baroness, I have a concern that if there is not something in the Bill—accept that the wording of the amendments may not be quite right and that there is some duplication in the wording—there will not be the lever when it comes to the rationing debate to say that the provision of assistance to communicate must become a higher priority in the delivery of healthcare services.Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
1202: This group of amendments is designed to protect people who are unable to or have difficulty in communicating verbally, whether they lack mental capacity or not. Every effort must be made to ensure that they have the opportunity to "speak" by their usual means. That may not mean speaking with their voice; it may be a speaking computer linked to a wheelchair—that is, if a person is not in his wheelchair, he has no voice. It may be a symbol board where an interpreter is required.1202Baroness Chapman
: Speaking from a personal point of view, I have a grandson with Down's Syndrome who also has dyspraxia. It is possible that he may have to go through life only signing; words are coming, but he is not yet making sentences. It is essential that such boys, who grow up to be reasonably intelligent adults—but perhaps with a lack of ease of communication—should be given the right to communicate in the Bill.Lord Rix
: I would like to speak to Amendment No. 9 in my name, which is also about communication, although on a different point. It would remove the word "general" and replace it with the word "the". That is simply because a general explanation can mean a good explanation in general plain English terms, but it can also mean that we say something to another person that is so general that it is better interpreted as, "I know best and I think you need to take my advice". We can so easily fob people off with a general type of argument such as, "It is good: if you have this operation you're going to feel a lot better".Baroness Greengross
"should state clearly that all relevant parties must use appropriate strategies to maximize the chance that persons will have the capacity to make decisions. This might include using specific communication strategies, providing information in more accessible form, or treating an underlying mental disorder to enable a person to regain capacity"."necessary support for interpretation",1203: I support Amendment No. 6 moved by the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, and also the amendment spoken to by my noble friend Lady Chapman. Earlier in our proceedings, I talked about the importance of continuity of treatment. The Minister discussed speech therapy, which is an issue close to my heart; we discuss it a great deal at home because my wife is a speech therapist in the National Health Service, specialising in the care of people— mainly adults—with disabilities. She often talks about the importance of learning to communicate in ways other than verbal communication, even though she is a speech therapist."should state clearly that all relevant parties must use appropriate strategies to maximize the chance that persons will have the capacity to make decisions. This might include using specific communication strategies, providing information in more accessible form, or treating an underlying mental disorder to enable a person to regain capacity"."necessary support for interpretation",1203Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I wish to support the principle set out in Amendment No. 8, which is grouped with Amendment No. 6, if only because a great many different kinds of communication aids are now available.Lord Walton of Detchant
1204: I put my name to Amendment No. 12.I can be brief, as all the arguments have been expressed extremely clearly. We can all agree that, while we need all the communication support possible while the person's capacity is being assessed, it is equally important that, once they have been assessed and been shown to be incapable or incapacitated, they should have the same
1204Lord Carter
: I add my support to what has been said on the matter, to which I alluded at Second Reading. The issue that has come up that has not been stressed is the value and importance of time. There are many aids to communication of various complex and sophisticated natures, but the most important of all is time, which is often the most costly and the thing that people are most unwilling to devote to the difficult business of assessing.Baroness McIntosh of Hudnall
1205: I support the general theme of the debate and in particular Amendment No. 6, where my name appears. I speak also to Amendment No. 14 in this group. I would like to spend a moment on the meaning of the phrase, "reasonably ascertainable" in Clause 4(6).1205Earl Howe
: Following on from the points raised by the noble Earl, Lord Howe, about the phrase "reasonably ascertainable", I hope the Minister can assure me that if the information about a person is not obtainable, the doctor will still treat that person. Otherwise it might be too late if the doctor waits for information that is not obtainable.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: Perhaps I may begin in the reverse order because it will be useful to deal with Amendment No. 14 and the issues raised by the noble Earl, Lord Howe, and the noble Baroness, Lady Masham. It is my understanding that the situation would be as the noble Baroness, Lady Masham, described: that the doctor would treat the patient. Part of what we are trying to do with the Bill is to make it quite clear that doctors are covered when providing treatment. The phrase "reasonably ascertainable" is specifically designed to cover a range of circumstances. Where a patient is unconscious and the doctor is worried that his life is in danger, the medical staff would not waste time looking through the patient's pockets for a phone number; they would treat the patient and deal with such issues later.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: He is.Lord Rix
"must, so far as reasonably practicable, permit and encourage the person to participate, or to improve his ability to participate, as fully as possible in any act done for him and any decision affecting him".12081207"given to him in a way that is appropriate to his circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means"."A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand a general explanation of it"—"A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision unless all practicable steps to help him to do so have been taken without success".: I hope he is well."must, so far as reasonably practicable, permit and encourage the person to participate, or to improve his ability to participate, as fully as possible in any act done for him and any decision affecting him".12081207"given to him in a way that is appropriate to his circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means"."A person is not to be regarded as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he is able to understand a general explanation of it"—"A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision unless all practicable steps to help him to do so have been taken without success".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1209: I similarly begin by dealing with this group of amendments in reverse. I was very encouraged by the response of the noble Baroness to the point of the noble Earl, Lord Howe. It is extremely helpful and welcome that the Minister will make those clarifications in the codes of practice.1209Baroness Barker
: The noble Baroness, Lady Barker, has said more or less what I was going to say, except I ask the Minister if she could think of another word—"general" is the wrong word. While I am happy not to take this any further now, we have not had a satisfactory answer. There is something wrong there which needs to be thought about further. I would like to put a marker down and return to it later.Baroness Greengross
: I go back to the illustration that I gave at Second Reading about explaining injections to people who have learning disabilities. There are different ways in which one can communicate what an injection is, which are quite specific but are delivered in different ways so that different people can gain an understanding of them.Baroness Barker
: I beg to move that the House do now resume. In doing so I suggest that the Committee stage resume not before 8.30 p.m.Baroness Andrews
12151214: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Baker, for raising this matter. As he made clear, this is not merely a parochial Question. Like him, I declare an interest, since my cottage at Beddingham, which is sadly not a stately home, lies only a quarter of a mile south of the A27. In fact, within a mile of the 20-mile stretch of the road between Polegate and Brighton, as the noble Lord said, are the homes of 12 noble Lords, to my knowledge. The reason for that high Peer density is not far to seek: as the noble Lord pointed out, the landscape and the villages in it are uniquely attractive, and noble Lords have excellent taste. Two noble Lords, no longer in the House, own sizable chunks of that landscape.12151214Lord Rea
: My Lords, I warmly support my noble friend in his robust plea for an improved A27, particularly between the Pevensey area and Chichester—although, as he pointed out, he did not dwell greatly on that western part of the road. I do not pretend to his intensive knowledge of the area, but I am a regular user of the road, partly. I suppose that I should declare a non-financial interest as a deputy lieutenant for East Sussex, which takes me frequently into the Lewes area. I also have friends who live outside Arundel and beyond Chichester. So, I have occasion to go from my home in St Leonards along the A259 to where it links with the A27 and thereafter along the A27 for what at times seems its endless length.Baroness Fookes
: My Lords, that is the situation after seven years of Labour government. I am not reproaching my noble friend but the Government.Lord Baker of Dorking
1216: My Lords, I am glad to hear that.1216Baroness Fookes
"A long standing problem exists on the stretch of the A27 which passes through Worthing. A very heavy volume of traffic becomes very slow moving due to the dual carriageway becoming a single carriageway and speed reducing to 30 mph through this urban area. At peak times this problem is really bad"."Sprawling estates, disconnected from jobs and services, which wasted land and generated more traffic should not be allowed".1217: My Lords, I am delighted to contribute to this debate. It makes a change from speaking just on home affairs matters in your Lordships House. I need to qualify why I am doing so. But before I do so, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Baker of Dorking, for initiating the debate. I agree entirely with the analysis that he offered of the A27."A long standing problem exists on the stretch of the A27 which passes through Worthing. A very heavy volume of traffic becomes very slow moving due to the dual carriageway becoming a single carriageway and speed reducing to 30 mph through this urban area. At peak times this problem is really bad"."Sprawling estates, disconnected from jobs and services, which wasted land and generated more traffic should not be allowed".1217Lord Dholakia
1218: My Lords, will the noble Lord remind the House, and tell the Minister who is not familiar with this road, that when the road passes
1218Lord Baker of Dorking
: My Lords, the noble Lord is absolutely right. I refer not only to the problem that he has identified but also to that of people who live in that area who have left their houses. Those houses are blighted as no one knows what will happen in relation to roads in that locality.Lord Dholakia
12201219: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend Lord Baker of Dorking for his skilful and comprehensive introduction. I remind the House of my interest as the president of the Heavy Transport Association.12201219Earl Attlee
: My Lords, before my noble friend sits down, with his great knowledge of the heavy vehicle industry, does he agree that a dual carriageway with properly engineered intersections is inherently a safer road than a single track, curving, hilly road such as the A27?Lord Baker of Dorking
: My Lords, my noble friend is absolutely right. Furthermore, pollution from heavy goods vehicles would be drastically reduced, because with an awkward single carriageway, the vehicles must work much harder.Earl Attlee
1221: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Baker, for introducing this interesting and very specific debate, and for the considerable interest that it has generated in all parts of the House on the question of this road. Although I would not call myself familiar with the A27, I know it well enough and am well aware of the features to which he has drawn attention. It is a classic road where improvements made to limited sections of it only throw into sharper contrast the problems where improvements have not been effected.1221Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, will the Minister give way?Lord Baker of Dorking
: My Lords, the noble Lord will take time away from my speech if he interrupts.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, does the Minister recall that I said that, when there was public consultation, 58 per cent of the local people wanted a dual carriageway over the level crossing? In another survey last year, that rose to 95 per cent. If he wants to talk about democracy, let us have a referendum in the local area to decide on that issue. I will not intervene again but, while he is talking about this road, who made the decision to reduce it from four lanes to three? Was it the Highways Agency or a Minister, and why? We have the width, and four lanes or three lanes are environmentally virtually the same.Lord Baker of Dorking
1225122412231222: My Lords, the noble Lord says that it is environmentally the same, but that is not the view of others. We have to take those issues into account. The road is three lanes rather than four to minimise the environmental effect. He may attest that he has substantial public opinion on his side, but we know the strength of local pressure groups and local opinion on environmental considerations. If one concern unites the nation at present, it is the desperate concern—although we need to improve transport by building better roads and improving roads that we
1225122412231222Lord Davies of Oldham
1227: I understand what the noble Earl, Lord Howe, seeks to do. and I recognise that the amendment is probing. We think that the wording we have used incorporates evaluation as well. It is important that part of that is being aware of the consequences of the decision. For example, someone who has an eating disorder may understand that they need to eat to stay alive, but they cannot weigh that and its consequences appropriately. Someone with depression may also be unable to assess and to weigh the information because of their condition.1227Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am grateful for that reply and beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
1229: I would in spirit very much like to support the amendment, but I have a small problem with it. Perhaps the Minister can help me or the noble Lord, Lord Carter. My problem is that one's capacity to take a decision varies depending on the size of the decision. If there is to be a formal way of assessing capacity and a duty formally to assess it, it is necessary to have a tool that is valid and possible of reproduction, as well as being widely applicable. One can then demonstrate that assessment has taken place against a measure.1229Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: I, too, support the noble Lord, Lord Carter, in the spirit of the amendment. I have two brief questions for the Minister. The first is whether local authorities and health authorities have been consulted about the new duties that will be placed on them. The second relates to their ability to carry out these functions. What resources will be made available to them when the legislation is introduced? All of us who have served on local authorities know that there are many competing demands on them and that their budgets have already been formulated for this fiscal year. Some lead time is needed in order to be able to work out new financial provisions if they are required. Can the Government give an indication of the overall costs of implementing the legislation and the provision that is being made for that?Lord Alton of Liverpool
"anyone engaged in caring for the person or interested in his welfare … any donee of a lasting power of attorney … and … any deputy".12311230: I am grateful to my noble friend because this is an important opportunity to examine the issues he has raised on assessments, and so forth, to ensure that we implement the legislation correctly. My noble friend Lord Carter invites me to have inserted into the Bill the formal procedure requirements he indicates. I accept the comments of the noble Baroness, Lady Finlay, on the missing parts, but I am sure that my noble friend would deal with that were he to bring the amendment back."anyone engaged in caring for the person or interested in his welfare … any donee of a lasting power of attorney … and … any deputy".12311230Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: When the Minister tells a former Chief Whip that she is going to steer him firmly in a certain direction, it reverses what we used to do. I am extremely grateful to the Minister. Obviously this is a probing amendment. If a person lacks capacity, an assessment will have to be carried out one way or another to ensure that he receives the right housing, social and residential care, and so on. There is no choice on that.Lord Carter
: Indeed, but I am very conscious that my noble friend steered me, as he is prone to do, towards looking for earlier implementation. There are real issues about ensuring that the different elements of this Bill work together— particularly, the Court of Protection.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: This is a debate that will continue inside and outside the Chamber. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Carter
: I think that the noble Lord, Lord Carter, was reading from my notes over my shoulder, because he said just about everything that I was going to say. Indeed the Minister and I had a discussion this morning about advance decisions and I too think that this will be a formal recording of positive decisions requesting treatment. I hope that we will find a way to deal with that.Baroness Chapman
1234: I have tabled some amendments in this group, but I fear that I have scored an own goal because mine do not cover private practice either. I should not have criticised the amendments of the noble Lord, Lord Carter, when I have made the same mistake. They were motivated by wanting to establish a position of equipoise.1234Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
1235: When some of us had an opportunity to discuss the matter at one of the meetings outside the Chamber, a fear was expressed, which I share to some extent, that people could demand any treatment— for example, a new treatment that is being tried out in Australia—and automatically say "I want to go there". Thinking about that afterwards and about our earlier debate today, I wondered whether the principle of equality of treatment would not cover that situation to some extent, if the Bill was carefully worded.1235Baroness Greengross
: The noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, has provided more ammunition in support of my argument about equal treatment.Baroness Barker
: Before the Minister replies, I wish to raise a point that I meant to make but forgot to do so. It is important.Lord Carter
12371236: Tempted though I am, I will not try to address the speculative question of my noble friend Lord Carter. I understand what he says, and I hope as I talk about the amendments we will reach some conclusions about what might have happened. I start by saying to my noble friend that it is the Scottish mental health legislation that recognises advance statements and not the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000.I have been sent a note about that, so I presume they wanted me to say that.12371236Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am very grateful to my noble friend, and I need not take up the Committee's time. If the Government intend to bring forward an amendment on Report, we must wait and see what it says and deal with the issue then. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Carter
: I shall speak to two amendments in this group, Amendments Nos. 21 and 94.I need not spend too long on Amendment No. 21, which merely seeks the Minister's reassurance on a very simple point. When a carer or doctor who is looking after the incapacitated person is doing so as an employee or agent of someone else, it is important that the employer or principal of the carer or doctor will not be in any way liable for anything done to the patient, so long as the carer or doctor himself acts lawfully within the scope of Clause 5. Can the Minister provide that assurance and, if so, can she say why the provision does not have to appear explicitly in the Bill?Earl Howe
1240: I have tabled Amendment No. 22, because I feel that many people with physical or mental impairments or with a condition causing diminishing mental capacity are made to feel that other people know best what their needs are. They may be medical professionals, social workers or members of their own family. Someone judged as having little or
1240Baroness Chapman
: I support the principles behind the amendments in this group, particularly as regards Amendment No. 20, to which I have added my name and to which the noble Lord, Lord Carter, has already spoken. For the record, I was slightly surprised at even the possibility arising of an organ being removed from a live donor who lacks capacity. That is a very helpful example as it underlines why advance statements might be very helpful as regards the whole field of organ donation. Although someone may be already brain dead, they may have a donor card and be maintained on a ventilator in perfuse, so a perfused organ is being removed. However, as regards the process of decision-making for the family, it may be very helpful to have an advance statement. That is a spin-off. It is lateral to the wording of the amendments that we are discussing, but will the Government consider that in drafting the amendments about advance statements and think about whether the donor problem that we have in the UK might be solved at the same time?Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
124412431242"that it will be in P's best interests for the act to be done".1241"before doing the act, D takes reasonable steps to establish whether P has capacity to consent to the act and must ascertain P's best interests if P is unable to consent for himself in accordance with section 4"."before doing the act, D takes reasonable steps to establish whether P lacks capacity in relation to the matter in question".: I am grateful to Members of the Committee who spoke to this group of amendments. I could say a lot about the purpose of Clause 5, but having listened to those who have spoken, I consider that the Committee is fully aware of its purpose. Indeed, we might have a clause stand part discussion in any event. Therefore, I shall work on that assumption and trust that Members of the Committee will intervene if they have a concern that needs to be addressed by further exploring the parameters of the clause.124412431242"that it will be in P's best interests for the act to be done".1241"before doing the act, D takes reasonable steps to establish whether P has capacity to consent to the act and must ascertain P's best interests if P is unable to consent for himself in accordance with section 4"."before doing the act, D takes reasonable steps to establish whether P lacks capacity in relation to the matter in question".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Official Report"I have no doubt that it is for Parliament, not the courts, to decide the broader issues which this case raises … it seems to me imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised by this case should be considered by Parliament".—[Official ReportBland: I am grateful to the Minister for an extremely full explanation. Obviously, I shall want to read it and then consider what to do.Official Report"I have no doubt that it is for Parliament, not the courts, to decide the broader issues which this case raises … it seems to me imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised by this case should be considered by Parliament".—[Official ReportBlandLord Carter
: I am grateful to my noble friend. I referred to cases of artificial nutrition and hydration in areas concerning a vegetative state, and to sterilisation. I did not say organ donation. In fact, I said the opposite: that I did not think that those cases should always end up in the courts. I would maintain that what was meant by the remarks of the judge in that particular context is met by the Bill.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Carter
12461245: I should like to spend a brief time on this Question to raise what I consider to be quite a major matter bearing upon the clause.12461245Earl Howe
: Will other supportive accommodation include prisons and detention centres? I have today been to the prison group and we have heard of the suicides in prison and the enormous number of mentally ill people who are detained in prison. The suicide rate of women is appalling. Will the Bill include prisons?Baroness Masham of Ilton
"The Government's response meets our substantive concerns in relation to involuntary placement. This should be made clear on the face of the Bill, bearing in mind that what is at stake is the liberty of the person. We therefore invite the Government to consider amending the Bill to make clear, for the avoidance of doubt, that "restraint" in the Act does not include deprivations of liberty".1247"The Government states that the Bill's provisions about restraint 'do not permit deprivations of liberty within the meaning of Article 5 ECHR. Restraint is defined as including restriction of
1247: I draw the Committee's attention to the report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights published yesterday. In discussing this issue, paragraph 4.8 states:
"The Government's response meets our substantive concerns in relation to involuntary placement. This should be made clear on the face of the Bill, bearing in mind that what is at stake is the liberty of the person. We therefore invite the Government to consider amending the Bill to make clear, for the avoidance of doubt, that "restraint" in the Act does not include deprivations of liberty".1247"The Government states that the Bill's provisions about restraint 'do not permit deprivations of liberty within the meaning of Article 5 ECHR. Restraint is defined as including restriction of
1247Lord Goodhart
1248: I am grateful to the noble Earl, Lord Howe, for raising the issue of the interface between the Bill and the Mental Health Act 1983, and also to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for reading precisely the same extract that I had intended to read out from the report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights.1248Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for his remarks, and also to the Minister whose reply I found extremely helpful. As she recognised, the issues I addressed were only tangential to the Bournewood issue because they focus on non-compliant individuals rather than compliant ones. However, she is right that there is perhaps a double-interface here with the next group of amendments. I am grateful that she will give further consideration to the points I have raised and in the mean time I do not propose to obstruct the passage of the clause.Earl Howe
: After that excellent exposition by the noble Lord, Lord Carter, there is not a great deal more that one would wish to say. But there are one or two points. I talked about the Bournewood chasm. That was as a result of work that we have been doing on the mental health scrutiny committee. The number of mental health patients who are, or could be, in this position is huge. The number of people detained in significant ways and at different times is far greater than has been suggested.Baroness Barker
125512541253: I am grateful to my noble friend for raising that issue, but I was hoping that he would provide a solution. I am always pleased when the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, is working in our best interest too.125512541253Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1256HL v UK.: I am extremely grateful to the Minister for that reply. Obviously, I shall not take up the Committee's time now. However, I believe that in December 2004 there was a case that was also on the lines of 1256HL v UK.Lord Carter
: My Lords, will my noble friend confirm that the renewable transport study will include the aviation sector? He mentioned international trade. Any duty on aviation fuel would have to be at least Europe-wide. Will he confirm that that important sector will be included, as it does not pay any duty at all at the moment?Lord Berkeley
: My Lords, is the noble Lord able to say roughly how rapid that progress will be? As the noble Lord, Lord Carter, mentioned, crops already growing in the ground now could be used by this coming September or October.Lord Palmer
1139: My Lords, the best indication of our commitment to make rapid progress is that we expect to set a target for 2010 this year. That is two years before we are obliged to do so under the
1139Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, a plant in Scotland has just been constructed to produce biofuel. Another one in Middlesbrough, which is five times larger than the Scottish one, will come on stream shortly. My noble friend, who played a conspicuous part in including this issue in the Energy Act, will recognise that there are major issues relating to the transport obligation that require us to cover the angle of international trade and our obligations in the European Community and to look at the sustainability of the programme, given the difficulties that some biofuels can produce in some economies. There are many angles to look at. I assure my noble friend that the study is going ahead, and we intend to make rapid progress this year.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the noble Lord is, of course, right; the amendments tabled by the noble Lord, my noble friend and the noble Lord, Lord Palmer, formed the basis of the government amendment to the Energy Act that gives us the basis for progress on this work. However, the noble Lord will recognise that it is not an easy market to develop. We have a model from the electricity supply industry, but this is a much more complex market. We have a great deal of work to do in developing the scheme. As I indicated, we expect to make progress this year.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the Government announced in December 2004 that they would undertake a feasibility study on the possibility of introducing a renewable transport fuel obligation. It will seek to establish the cost-effectiveness and administrative feasibility of an obligation, as well as its compatibility with other government objectives. The study is under way, and an interdepartmental group is making good progress. We will be talking to stakeholders shortly and seeking their input to the study.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, if I did, I apologise. One plant is in operation now—the one in Scotland that I mentioned. The Middlesbrough plant is being constructed. However, the broader question of a renewable transport fuel obligation constitutes a much bigger issue. That was the focus of the original Question and is the issue with which we are wrestling, due to its great complexity.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the project that we are discussing relates to land transport and not to aviation. The aviation industry is governed by international rules that are more complex to change than those relating to the issue that we are discussing, to which we can effect changes through our own legislation. My noble friend will have noted that my right honourable friend the Prime Minister has indicated that he intends during his chairmanship of the G8 this year to place the issue of aviation fuel firmly within international consideration of airline emissions.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I was not indicating that the project involved 2010 as a date for the new plant; I was indicating that that would be the date on which we would have a percentage target to which we would be committed for the use of renewable fuels.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, if it is true that it is normal for these contracts to be placed overseas, why do we not simply buy the goods direct and save taxpayers a lot of money?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, we are expanding and improving both apprenticeships and work experience opportunities and engaging more employers to offer apprenticeships, including in construction. Construction is one of the priority sectors developing new sector skills agreements, which set out how the industry skills base will be improved. Apprenticeships and work experience will play a major role in achieving the goal of an all-qualified construction workforce by 2010.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I assure my noble friend that the initiative that he described a moment ago will continue. Because of the need for the half million further trained experts within the next six years within the industry, that programme will be very important. In all these areas, we are very reliant for intelligence on employers in the industry. Nobody knows what is needed in the industry in the medium and long term better than those who have to address that industry from a commercial point of view. Although a number of government agencies are indeed involved, they come together through the sector skills councils, where the evidence of employers is foremost.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the aspiration for 50 per cent of young people to qualify themselves to the highest possible level cannot be a bad one. However, the need is plain: we need more people with the skills that have just been described, and the sector skills councils are absolutely vital in that. They will reach skills agreements which will go to the heart of the programme, as is happening in construction. I have been astonished to find that the Official Opposition plan to abolish the councils that provide the employers with exactly the means that they seek to shape training, to put funding and training into operation and to offer routes to employment and career progression for young people. That must be one of the most surprising pieces of policy that anyone has heard of.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, construction completion rates are a cause for concern. However, there is a contrast to the improving standards for apprenticeship programmes as a whole. As a result of those improving standards, the number of those who drop out has been falling, from 60 per cent in 2002 to 34 per cent in 2004. The industry itself is made up in large part of very small firms, some of them micro-firms, unable to operate apprenticeship schemes on their own. We have tried to get the larger firms to use the firms downstream of them to provide apprenticeships, but with the larger firms co-ordinating and providing the content. That way, we are most likely to be able to deliver.Lord Triesman
1137: My Lords, I am grateful to have been asked that question. I am aware of the scheme and there are plans to encourage it. Perhaps I could draw the attention of the House to one other scheme
1137Lord Triesman
1138: My Lords, that is quite true. It has been particularly successful in doing so. That was one
1138Lord Triesman
: My Lords, happily, the number of apprentices in the construction industry is going up. There is every reason to believe that it will continue to go up. The fundamental thing for all these apprentices is that their aspirations are met by the courses they take, and that their abilities match them to real needs in the market so that they can see that they have a viable future. All of those factors are combining. That is a rather good news story for the United Kingdom.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the House knows that apprenticeships constitute structured programmes of training which lead to recognised qualifications, giving the young people who take those apprenticeships the opportunity to work with an employer, to learn on the job, to build up knowledge and skills and to gain qualifications. It would be very good news if people put their qualifications on the sides of their vans.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I do not have the overall figure for women as regards the 22,000 construction industry apprenticeships that are currently on offer, but I will write to the noble Baroness and provide it. I am told that the number and the proportion of women are going up. I believe that is also the case as regards other groups from ethnic minorities that have been under represented.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, is it not surprising that the Government are launching yet another consultative inquiry into the issue of a renewable transport fuel obligation when they launched one in April last year and a majority of respondents replied in favour? The Energy Act 2004, drafted by the Government themselves, sets out in great detail how such an obligation should operate. Why is there this further delay?Lord Ezra
: My Lords, in agreeing that the contract was placed with Cooneen Watts & Stone, will my noble friend confirm that the contract is with an ex-Red Army factory in China? Were the samples he described made in the UK or in China? My information is that they were produced in the UK.Lord Hoyle
: My Lords, have any of the camouflage uniforms been delivered to this country? Indeed, has any cloth been delivered to this country? Despite what my noble friend has said, will he reconsider the placing of the contract? It has gone to an ex-Red Army factory in China, which has poor labour conditions and is lacking when it comes to health and safety, at the expense of jobs in the north-west with a company that, as recently as Iraq, has been recommended for delivering on time and to schedule?Lord Hoyle
: My Lords, is the Minister aware of the important work of National Grid Transco in training young offenders in custody in the repair and laying of pipes and in fork-lift driving, and of the very low rates of recidivism in those young men when they leave custody? What plans are there to expand that scheme to fill the gaps in the construction workforce to which the noble Lord, Lord Harrison, alluded?The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, is the shortage due to the fact that employers will not employ apprentices or to the fact that apprentices are not paid enough to go into the job?Lord Mackie of Benshie
1134: My Lords, officers and senior NCOs affected by regimental and band cuts are
1134Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the cost of a new mess kit for an officer would be at least £500? In asking the question, I remind the House of my interest.Earl Attlee
Lord Bassam of BrightonClauses 70 to 72.—(Lord Bassam of BrightonSchedules 7 to 9,Clauses 33 to 69,Schedule 6,Clauses 13 to 32,Schedule 5,Clauses 9 to 12,Schedules 3 and 4,Clauses 7 and 8,Schedules 1 and 2,Clauses 1 to 6,
Lord Bassam of BrightonClauses 70 to 72.—(Lord Bassam of BrightonSchedules 7 to 9,Clauses 33 to 69,Schedule 6,Clauses 13 to 32,Schedule 5,Clauses 9 to 12,Schedules 3 and 4,Clauses 7 and 8,Schedules 1 and 2,Clauses 1 to 6,: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in the name of my noble friend Lady Scotland of Asthal on the Order Paper.Lord Bassam of BrightonClauses 70 to 72.—(Lord Bassam of BrightonSchedules 7 to 9,Clauses 33 to 69,Schedule 6,Clauses 13 to 32,Schedule 5,Clauses 9 to 12,Schedules 3 and 4,Clauses 7 and 8,Schedules 1 and 2,Clauses 1 to 6,
Lord Bassam of BrightonClauses 70 to 72.—(Lord Bassam of BrightonSchedules 7 to 9,Clauses 33 to 69,Schedule 6,Clauses 13 to 32,Schedule 5,Clauses 9 to 12,Schedules 3 and 4,Clauses 7 and 8,Schedules 1 and 2,Clauses 1 to 6,Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that encouraging Answer. First, will the Government extend the successful pilot programme called OSAT, which is concerned with onsite training and assessment of apprentices in the construction industry, so that we can provide the 500,000 new recruits that we need each year in this important and vital industry? Secondly, will the Government help to rationalise the gathering of data for labour market intelligence and skills assessment, which currently falls among four separate government agencies and departments?Lord Harrison
: My Lords, does my noble friend acknowledge that the Coventry-based Whitefriars Housing Group, which he has already mentioned, has been highly successful in recruiting apprentices from the ethnic minority groups in the local areas?Lord Harrison
: My Lords, the noble Baroness claimed that the department was successfully introducing direct payments. Is she aware how hollow that claim will ring to 140,000 pensioners and incapacity benefit recipients who did not get their proper payments over the new year bank holiday weekend? They are from places as far apart as Merseyside and Swansea; and over 20,000 people in Northern Ireland were still waiting five days later. On 6 January, the DWP said that it was investigating this delay as a matter of urgency. What went wrong, and what action is her department taking to make sure that these vulnerable people do not get left high and dry again?Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, has the Minister considered the German experience where examinations for apprenticeships are done externally, where written reports are produced and where plumbers put their qualifications on the side of their vans? Could we not aim to do that?Lord Pilkington of Oxenford
: My Lords, it is an extraordinary statement that accounts have been qualified with a problem of this size, I believe she said, since 1989. Are there any other departments with this problem? Any company would be out of business overnight.Lord Marsh
: My Lords, will the noble Lord be kind enough to have another shot at answering the question of the noble Lord, Lord Palmer? He asked when the plant was likely to come into operation. I think that the noble Lord forgot to answer that.Earl Ferrers
: My Lords, the Comptroller and Auditor-General pointed out that the problem was not just fraud, it was also error. While noting that the overpayment of housing benefit has fallen from £750 million to £650 million over the past two years, can the noble Baroness tell me the administrative cost per pound paid to housing benefit claimants in 1996–97 compared with 2003–04?Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, can my noble friend give us the difference in prices?Lord Taylor of Blackburn
: My Lords, I am afraid I am not in a position to give the difference between the prices, nor would it be appropriate for me to do so for a contract that was run commercially in the normal way. But I can say that all those who applied to be prime contractors for this contract—and it was a competition for a prime contractorship—are UK companies.Lord Bach
: My Lords, the Question of my noble friend Lord Hoyle was about a particular contract for combat uniforms. The contract for uniforms referred to by the noble Lord, Lord Astor, is quite different.Lord Bach
: My Lords, we are still working through all the consequences of the recent announcements made in this House and elsewhere on the reorganisation of the infantry, including the implications for changes to uniform and regimental embellishments. We are already looking at amending contracts with clothing suppliers to ensure that current stock levels are reduced in a proper and timely manner. We think that the overall costs should be modest and can be absorbed into in-year budgets as they occur. I can give the noble Lord this satisfaction: I confirm that non-commissioned officers and officers will not have to pay for their standard issue of uniform. I know that one of the considerations is for the non-standard issue of uniform, and I will take that back.Lord Bach
: My Lords, the cut and sewn contract, which has been looked at very carefully, was let after a fair and open competition against the published criteria. Cooneen Watts & Stone Limited, a UK company based in Northern Ireland, was the clear winner against these criteria. There have been four tests of the fabric from which the garments were made, which found that it was satisfactory. That is why we are satisfied about compliance so far with the contract. The first deliveries on the contract are due on 25 February, and we will of course check whether they are within the specifications.Lord Bach
: My Lords, the prime contractor, whoever it is, in a contract such as this has a key role to play. We do not believe that we would get such efficient service if it were sent direct.Lord Bach
: My Lords, if the noble Earl says so, of course I agree with him.Lord Bach
1135: My Lords, I do not know where the fabric from which the garments were made was manufactured. I will write to my noble friend on that. He is quite right that the Chinese factory has a subcontract role, but all the consortium companies which submitted tenders for the contract were led by UK-based companies. As is the continuing trend in the clothing industry, whether we like it or not. most
1135Lord Bach
: My Lords, under the EU public procurement regulations, we may only consider the award criteria directly relevant to the nature of the items or services to be supplied in order to apply the principles of "most economically advantageous tender".The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
21140: My Lords, does the Minister accept that, so far as I am concerned, his response will
21140Baroness Byford
: My Lords, could the Minister say what the Government are doing to encourage young people to complete the apprentice courses? I understand that both on the basic and on the advanced course the drop-out rate is about 50 per cent. On the employers' side, could the Government say whether they are convinced that they are reaching the right people, with the employer training pilot? Is it really reaching the SMEs that need assistance with training, or is it just going to the multinationals?Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, the noble Baroness was kind enough to indicate that her concerns lay with the departmental accounts. Broadly, the answer is a qualified "yes". We are improving our processes and payments systems in three ways: first, by continuing to press down on fraud and error, but obviously we are dealing with high-value benefits and complex lives; secondly, by successfully introducing direct payments, with over 90 per cent client satisfaction; and, thirdly, by strengthening our services to the public with our pension service and our reforms in Jobcentre Plus.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
: My Lords, I do not think that other departments have this problem. They mostly collect payments. The problem here—which noble Lords will recognise, certainly if one reads Sir John Bourn's report—is because you are trying to calculate fraud. The DWP is the largest maker of payments anywhere in the world. There is a level of fraud where people work while claiming, or where lone parents have live-in boyfriends but claim as lone parents, or where there is fraud between landlord and tenant over housing benefit. Our problem is to calculate the amount that we think is being fraudulently extracted and then to press down on it. We have made huge headway; we have virtually halved it, and we should be given credit for that. We still have a long way to go, but I do not think that any other department is in the same situation of paying out some 150 million payments per year.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
1142: My Lords, there have been a few instances of the Post Office computers failing to deliver in August and December, and in the department, with a two-day delay over the bank holiday period. We have been investigating this, and the system was restored very quickly. I am not sure
1142Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: No, My Lords, because housing benefit is paid out by local authorities, not by the DWP.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, the Auditor-General has qualified what was the DSS, now the DWP accounts since 1989. The noble Baroness will understand that this has been going on for some 15 years and over a number of governments. The previous government did not even begin to estimate fraud or tackle it seriously until 1995. We have worked hard, and we have virtually halved the level of fraud on the outstanding benefits, income support and JSA, since 1997. Then it was 10.4 per cent; now it is 6.4 per cent. We still have a long way to go, and I accept that. It is important that we do it, not only because the money wasted on fraud could have gone on 60,000 teachers or 60,000 nurses, but because fraud rots the welfare state.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
1143: My Lords, I accept that, and it is why we not only have the verification framework in place for local authorities to tackle the issue of fraud— which is important because there is probably twice as much fraud as error in the system— but we are seeking to disseminate best practice. In London, for example, Camden is regarded as implementing best practice in handling housing benefit. It is on top of it, and it works very fast. In other London boroughs in the East End, the wait has been something like 10 to 12 months before all of the complicated housing benefit claims have been processed.1143Baroness Hollis of Heigham
1136: My Lords, this country is crying out for more plumbers, joiners and skilled
1136Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I declare an interest as a past vice-president of the National House Building Council. What percentage of women are going in for this training? They are eminently suited to undertake these highly skilled jobs.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, is the noble Baroness aware that local authorities are paid by her department? There is extreme difficulty in local authorities, particularly where people come on and off benefit. If they go on receiving housing benefit smoothly for ever, that is no problem for the council. However, great difficulties are experienced by the council and even more so by the poor person who has perhaps been wise or foolish enough to take up employment on a short-term basis, and who then finds that it is almost impossible to get their benefit back. The council then blames them for not paying their rent. That is a major problem with a lot of local authorities.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
"We will maintain action against benefit fraud of all kinds".: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that reply. I am sure that she will recall that in the 1997 Labour Party manifesto, the Government stated:
"We will maintain action against benefit fraud of all kinds".Baroness Noakes
: Five!Noble Lords
"rank-smelling weapons of mass destruction".Spectator1287: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Baroness on the way in which she has introduced this debate. She speaks with great authority founded on her long experience of the subject under discussion. By comparison, my own few faltering words will appear lamentably facile. I put before your Lordships this afternoon three words—greed, garments, goats— the relevance of which I hope will become apparent in a few moments."rank-smelling weapons of mass destruction".Spectator1287Lord Eden of Winton
1288: My Lords, it is a privilege to have the opportunity to join in the debate initiated this afternoon by the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker. I come from Llandudno where we have a big problem with wild goats. There are around 260 of them wandering on the Great Orme, but I am sure that that is not the direction my speech should take today.1288Lord Roberts of Llandudno
1290"emergency relief and development aid count for little if the underlying causes of poverty and deprivation, such as the injustice and imbalances in current global trade practices are not addressed.1289: My Lords, I, too, am grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for initiating this important debate. It is timely not only because of the appalling human tragedy in the tsunami and the crisis and international action flowing from it, but also because 2005 offers the British Government the unique set of opportunities to garner the necessary political will to help make poverty history.1290"emergency relief and development aid count for little if the underlying causes of poverty and deprivation, such as the injustice and imbalances in current global trade practices are not addressed.1289The Lord Bishop of Southwell
"When development aid is made available both sides of the relationship have obligations".1291: My Lords, I, too, congratulate my noble friend Lady Whitaker on introducing the debate with her customary authority. I greatly value her authority and expertise in development policy issues in her membership of the Council of the Overseas Development Institute. I declare an interest as chairman of that council."When development aid is made available both sides of the relationship have obligations".1291Baroness Jay of Paddington
12931292: My Lords, it is rather sad that on this great and important subject the party of government will speak for 107 minutes, the Official Opposition for 22 minutes, the Liberal Democrats for 24 minutes, the
12931292Lord Selsdon
1295dalitdalitdalitsdalits1294: My Lords, the noble Baroness has again led us into a timely discussion of poverty. We have heard the Chancellor skilfully draw our attention back to Africa and the many challenges there. The tsunami has again concentrated our attention on the immediate relief of suffering, but we must keep disasters in proportion. Even the record numbers of dead and displaced this time are small beside the casualties of war in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. In Sri Lanka alone, tens of thousands had died before the tsunami. A similar number of dead in Iraq, including civilians, has hardly evoked international sympathy on the scale we have recently seen. Why is that?1295dalitdalitdalitsdalits1294The Earl of Sandwich
12971296: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lady Whitaker for introducing this extremely important debate relating to the abolition of poverty in developing countries. This is one area in which the Labour Government have done a great deal of which to be proud. They have untied the aid budget so that poor countries receiving aid from us remain free to buy goods and services from the most cost-effective sources.12971296Lord Parekh
dalits1298dalits: My Lords, I start by thanking the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for initiating this debate. I am grateful for the opportunity to say something about my favourite subject. All noble Lords have spoken about poverty, poor countries and poor people, but nobody has yet spoken about the poorest of the poor. These are not the dalits1298dalitsBaroness Flather
1300"a lack of education … has severe and lifelong repercussions for children. Study after study confirms the high economic returns to both individuals and economies from investment in education".Childhood Under Threat"Ensuring that by 2015 all children, particularly girls … have access to complete, free and compulsory primary education of good quality".1299: My Lords, I congratulate my noble friend Lady Whitaker on securing this debate and inspiring so many noble Lords to participate. My
1300"a lack of education … has severe and lifelong repercussions for children. Study after study confirms the high economic returns to both individuals and economies from investment in education".Childhood Under Threat"Ensuring that by 2015 all children, particularly girls … have access to complete, free and compulsory primary education of good quality".1299Baroness Massey of Darwen
1301: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for introducing this debate and for her understanding of the importance of small farmers. I am probably speaking against my own interest as a farmer and landowner in England. I am concerned about the subsidies that developed countries pay on exported food and farm crops to the rest of the world, often to the poorest developing countries. These can take away the whole livelihood of small farmers and growers who may be earning little more than a dollar a day. Export of milk powder, for example, can be particularly harmful to poorer dairy farmers and may discourage breastfeeding, so important to the health of children in all countries.1301Lord Hylton
1303: My Lords, I echo the appreciation expressed by others to my noble friend Lady Whitaker for giving us the opportunity to debate this subject. I shall try to rise to the challenge issued by the noble Lord, Lord Selsdon, and not repeat what others have said, although I doubt whether I can match his eloquence in speaking for five minutes without notes.1303Lord Brett
13051304: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lady Whitaker for initiating this debate which has attracted some good speeches, notably those of the noble Earl, Lord Sandwich, and the noble Baroness, Lady Flather. I am also grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Hylton, as he said everything that I wanted to say about export subsidies and thereby saved me some time.13051304Lord Desai
Le Nouvelliste1306: My Lords, I add my tribute to the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for instigating this debate. We started late because there was a Statement about combating terrorism, in the course of which it was mentioned that the prime duty of a Home Secretary or of any government is the security of the democracy and the state in which we live. That gives me a cue to begin any contribution that I can make to this debate. Some of the most fragile countries, and countries on the point of collapse, have such an absence of security that all talk of poverty alleviation is nonsense. The provision of security is of such a primordial nature that it is almost redundant and recondite for us to talk about grand strategies for alleviating povertyLe Nouvelliste1306Lord Griffiths of Burry Port
per se13081307: My Lords, I too wish to thank the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for securing this debate. By far the greatest trigger for extreme poverty and destitution is the enforced movement of communities due to conflict, drought, government land policies, and/or multinational investments, among other factors. A community that is forced to move is by definition vulnerable, because existing networks and coping strategies, which all small-scale societies have, are grossly disrupted. For these reasons, groups rarely move voluntarily, but when they do so it is an indication of their desperationper se13081307Baroness D'Souza
13101309: My Lords, I, too, pay tribute to my noble friend Lady Whitaker, who has always been a champion of the poor. It is wonderful that she persuaded the powers that be to make space for this debate tonight.13101309Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
13121311: My Lords, I welcome the debate in a critical year in which the world is focusing on saving and improving the lives of hundreds of millions of people in developing countries. A considerable success of this Government is that politicians of all parties in the UK now accept that it is in the interests of the whole world to eliminate poverty and ill health everywhere. In our global village, global health, tourism, trade and security are interdependent. Development, as other noble Lords have commented, also benefits the quality of human life; it leads to less social violence, more gender equality, democracy, culture, education and international understanding.13121311Lord Hunt of Chesterton
"the world belongs to all who live in it"1314"promote gender equality and empower women".1313: My Lords, I add my very warm thanks to my noble friend Lady Whitaker for tabling this debate, which I believe is of global importance. Our interdependent world is in need of urgent change, which requires leadership and consistent action by wealthy countries working together in partnership with each other and in partnership with developing countries. I am, of course, delighted that this Government are providing leadership and that this country is on track to meet the UN target of 0.7 per cent of national income to be spent on aid. I celebrate the fact that they are working in partnership and not in isolation."the world belongs to all who live in it"1314"promote gender equality and empower women".1313Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
1315: My Lords, nations have characters. It is in the character of our nation that it should give help to developing countries, especially the poorest. This Government have pursued a sustained and vigorous development aid programme. That reflects our national character. The public response to the tsunami appeal was incredible. That reflects our national character. This coalition of government policy and public sentiment is fortuitous.1315Lord Brennan
13171316: My Lords, I, too, thank my noble friend Lady Whitaker for initiating this debate. Yes, 2005 could prove to be a watershed in the fight against poverty in the developing world. The decisions taken this year by leaders of the developed nations on this issue will be a measure of their determination to tackle the world's greatest injustice. Britain has taken a significant lead on this vital matter. The initiatives taken by the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and the Department for International Development, especially those that affect Africa, can have far-reaching beneficial consequences.13171316Lord Jordan
"is helped by a voluntary reduction in fertility, which promotes greater investments in the health, nutrition, and education of each child. We thus strongly support programs that promote sexual and reproductive health and rights, including voluntary family planning. Critical to overall success in economic growth and poverty reduction, they can help countries meet the Goals, freeing them from the poverty trap and their dependence on aid"1318: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lord Jordan for that cogent and stirring speech. My noble friend Lady Whitaker has chosen the right timing for this debate. As she and others reminded us, three very important statements on relieving world poverty have just been published. There is the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech in Edinburgh on 6 January and his subsequent remarks in Africa; there is the OECD report on development assistance; and, last but not least, Jeffrey Sachs's UN report on the progress, or should we say lack of progress, towards meeting the millennium development goals. At the same time, the NGO consortium, Make Poverty History, has launched its campaign."is helped by a voluntary reduction in fertility, which promotes greater investments in the health, nutrition, and education of each child. We thus strongly support programs that promote sexual and reproductive health and rights, including voluntary family planning. Critical to overall success in economic growth and poverty reduction, they can help countries meet the Goals, freeing them from the poverty trap and their dependence on aid"1318Lord Rea
13211320: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for introducing this important debate in such a wide-ranging and, as ever, well informed way. The humanitarian case for assisting the poorest countries is overwhelming but, as others have said, we should also recognise that we all benefit from the stability and security that prosperity fosters.13211320Baroness Northover
1323"the UK Government talks the talk on international development but the … (UN Millennium Project report) … shows that they've yet to walk the walk ".1322: My Lords, I also thank the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, for initiating this important debate. As was discussed in last week's debate on EU Committee reports, security and development are inextricably interlinked. We cannot separate conflict from development when one country in eight is embroiled in civil war. A century ago, most conflicts were between nations and 90 per cent of casualties were soldiers; today, almost all wars are civil, and 90 per cent of victims are civilians.1323"the UK Government talks the talk on international development but the … (UN Millennium Project report) … shows that they've yet to walk the walk ".1322Lord Astor of Hever
133013291328132713261325: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lady Whitaker for her introduction to the debate, which was genuinely comprehensive and full of knowledge. I also thank all other noble Lords who have participated. It has been a good, knowledgeable, constructive and positive debate on the Government's policy towards poverty reduction in developing countries. It makes me very proud of what this country does and what the Government are doing.133013291328132713261325Lord Triesman
: My Lords, another important debate is waiting in the wings. I simply thank all noble Lords who have taken part in such a high-calibre and inspiring debate, not forgetting the mention of my fellow Nottinghamian, Jesse Boot. I beg leave to withdraw the Motion.Baroness Whitaker
1336ad hoc1335: My Lords, I think that the authors of this report are to be thanked for their efforts. The noble Lord and his team are to be congratulated on what I think is a substantial piece of work. That said, I am afraid that there is a lot in their paper with which I do not agree. My first point is that their paper would not have been written in this way except by supporters of the governing party. Its major fault as a programme for action is that it does not take an all-party approach, which is essential if progress is to be made.1336ad hoc1335Lord Wakeham
1337: My Lords, I welcome the debate as I welcomed the interesting report of the noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, when it was published. The report is a very useful agenda to which members of all parties, and of none, can decide whether it is time to make some changes.1337Lord Rodgers of Quarry Bank
13391338: My Lords, for this debate I have regained my freedom; I do speak not as Convenor of the Cross-Bench Peers, but for myself. I am thus in a similar position to the authors of the report, who, I understand, speak not for all their colleagues but for their working group.13391338Lord Williamson of Horton
Hansard1340: My Lords, it was a privilege to serve on the Labour Peers' Working Group under the expert chairmanship of my noble friend Lord Hunt of Kings Heath. After 10 years on the opposition Front Bench and five years as Chief Whip, I believe that the central point is actually quite simple. What combination of powers, procedures and conventions will help to strike the crucial balance between the undoubted right of the elected government to obtain their programme of legislation without unreasonable delay, and the right of the House of Lords to scrutinise, revise and if necessary delay, with the overlaying consideration that whatever the composition of the House the government of the day will always be in a minority?Hansard1340Lord Carter
: I am here.Lord Grocott
1341: I think he has collapsed, my Lords.1341Lord Carter
: My Lords, I listened to the noble Lord, Lord Carter, with much interest, especially when he expressed some doubts about the feasibility of some of the Labour Peers' proposals for reform of your Lordships' House. Although I agree with some of them, I cannot accept the need for all the legislation proposed. In particular, I strongly disagree with the suggestions in paragraphs 3 to 7 that even our internal powers of procedure should become statutory. I say that because it really is necessary that we should continue to be flexible in the conduct of our own procedures.Lord Renton
1343: My Lords, it is a privilege, as always, to follow the noble Lord, Lord Renton. He referred to the number of QCs in the House. I think I am right in saying that he is by far the most senior of those QCs; I think he has been in silk for 50 years or even more. He is certainly, as far as I am concerned, the most respected.1343Lord Lloyd of Berwick
1344: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lord Hunt and the committee for all the work that they have done. The document that they produced is certainly causing the House to think about its procedures rather than its composition. That in itself is a change. Previously discussion has focused on composition. We ought to also discuss procedures.1344Lord Hoyle
"I do not seek to have a Speaker in this House with a high profile approach … I would want the Speaker to be elected by the whole House, to be totally impartial once elected and, if he came from a political party … I would want him to leave his political party for the remainder of his life to show that impartiality. The Speaker would become the servant of this House".1345"A Speaker should be elected by the House. Members of the House should become more disciplined and abide by its rules and procedures"."Supplementary Questions may be asked but they should be short and confined to not more than two points".Companion to the Standing Orders: My Lords, I take up the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Hoyle, concerning the possibility of more formalised arrangements for our first item of business, Question Time. It is a relatively narrow issue, but on the other hand it is a premium time during the day when the House is crowded. It is an occasion when the House has the opportunity to demonstrate its effectiveness with advantage. At the moment, we are supposed to be guided by the "I do not seek to have a Speaker in this House with a high profile approach … I would want the Speaker to be elected by the whole House, to be totally impartial once elected and, if he came from a political party … I would want him to leave his political party for the remainder of his life to show that impartiality. The Speaker would become the servant of this House".1345"A Speaker should be elected by the House. Members of the House should become more disciplined and abide by its rules and procedures"."Supplementary Questions may be asked but they should be short and confined to not more than two points".Companion to the Standing OrdersLord Biffen
1347CompanionCompanionCompanion1346in seriatim: My Lords, I have not spoken seriously from these Benches for a long time now, so noble Lords must forgive me if I am a bit rusty. I have spent most of my time in this House doing Select Committee work or as the Chairman of Committees. I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, and his colleagues on producing a useful report, which is a useful starting point for a wide-ranging debate, and which I hope we will all take the opportunity of building on. I agree with a number of the key conclusions. I will not go through them 1347CompanionCompanionCompanion1346in seriatimLord Tordoff
1348: My Lords, like others, I congratulate my noble friend Lord Hunt on his report. I know that the members of his group have widely disparate views, but those views have been harmonised into a coherent package which has merited the serious consideration given to it by your Lordships this evening.1348Lord Gordon of Strathblane
1349: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, has done the House a service in introducing this debate. I hope he will forgive me if I gently tease him. On page 79, the report complains of constant breaches of the guidance on the length of speeches. The Chief Whip told us at the beginning of the proceedings that the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, was allocated 15 minutes and if the clock says " 15 minutes" and he is still talking, he has been talking for too long. I noticed, with some amusement, that the clock said "16 minutes" when he sat down.1349Lord Jopling
1351"Delayed Divisions for non-bill votes. This would enable members to maximise their attendances as they would know when votes were likely to happen"."Voting on legislation … should take place in prime time"—1350: My Lords, this very interesting report contains a large number of specific recommendations. If one looks at them individually, one can find some with which one agrees, others with which one disagrees, and yet others which would provide a helpful introduction to further consideration—for example, the rolling programme of legislation.1351"Delayed Divisions for non-bill votes. This would enable members to maximise their attendances as they would know when votes were likely to happen"."Voting on legislation … should take place in prime time"—1350Viscount Bledisloe
"a modern second chamber, able to exercise its powers with confidence, can add value to the deliberations of Parliament, scrutinise the Government and complement the work of the House of Commons".1352"the case for a regulated second chamber becomes very persuasive"."reduce many of the traditional ritualistic and repetitive proceedings"."The proposals in this paper are a cohesive package of measures which require consideration as a whole rather than in a piecemeal way".: My Lords, I begin by saying that I considered it a privilege to have been elected to the working group that wrote the report. I pay tribute to my colleagues on it for their dedication and willingness to seek consensus among ourselves for agreed conclusions and record my thanks to our advisers and secretariat, who gave us such unstinting time and support. In particular, I congratulate my noble friend Lord Hunt of Kings Heath on his skill in chairing a group with strongly held differing views with great dedication and good humour."a modern second chamber, able to exercise its powers with confidence, can add value to the deliberations of Parliament, scrutinise the Government and complement the work of the House of Commons".1352"the case for a regulated second chamber becomes very persuasive"."reduce many of the traditional ritualistic and repetitive proceedings"."The proposals in this paper are a cohesive package of measures which require consideration as a whole rather than in a piecemeal way".Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
1353: My Lords, continuing uncertainty about the future of a legislative body debilitates it and undermines its authority, so I stress the urgent need to resolve the way forward for this House. I hope that I can reflect that urgency in my remarks.1353Lord Hunt of Wirral
1354Parliament and the Legislative ProcessCompanionCompanion: My Lords, like other noble Lords, I congratulate my noble friend Lord Hunt of Kings Heath and his committee on producing a thoughtful and comprehensive report, most of the recommendations of which I support in principle.1354Parliament and the Legislative ProcessCompanionCompanionBaroness Gould of Potternewton
8.38 p.m.Chief Whip1356"I think instead of just looking at the composition, we will also seek to curtail the powers of the Lords and seek to get manageable procedure into the Lords … we need to bring down the period that it can frustrate the will of the Commons from a year to under a year, and we need to get procedures in place that will allow legislation to go through".1355: My Lords, I welcome this report. I agree with much of it, but I am a tad more cynical in my approach than some noble Lords were in their speeches. The noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, rightly said that the ability to delay is key to the powers of this House. But he and his group make no mention of what they believe the right time for delay should be. Perhaps I may remind your Lordships that Peter Hain, the Leader of the House of Commons and the Lord Privy Seal, after we delayed the Bill to abolish the office of Lord Chancellor at Second Reading a few
Chief Whip1356"I think instead of just looking at the composition, we will also seek to curtail the powers of the Lords and seek to get manageable procedure into the Lords … we need to bring down the period that it can frustrate the will of the Commons from a year to under a year, and we need to get procedures in place that will allow legislation to go through".1355Lord Renton of Mount Harry
"A new Parliament Act will need to incorporate the following:"1357"Marbles Arriving Registered Baggage Love Elgin".: My Lords, it is a pleasure to follow my noble friend Lord Renton of Mount Harry. As he alluded, he was both a Chief Whip and the author of a book on Whips, which is an excellent provenance and pedigree for this debate. Like the noble Lord, Lord Williamson, I, too, shall be speaking as an individual."A new Parliament Act will need to incorporate the following:"1357"Marbles Arriving Registered Baggage Love Elgin".Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
13591358: My Lords, I owe my noble friend Lord Hunt and the group two apologies. First, I was not able to testify or take any part in the group's deliberations because at the time I was busy getting married. Secondly, I also apologise because, not having given my opinion before, I shall do so now. It will not be much to the liking of those who wrote the report.13591358Lord Desai
1360Parliament and the Legislative Process: My Lords, in the time available, I want to make three quick points. First, like many noble Lords, I welcome the report and this debate as a contribution to the discussion on the role and functions of the second Chamber. As has been pointed out, too often debate on the reform of this House is focused exclusively on composition. That focus has tended to permit tunnel vision and lazy thinking. What is needed is to take a much broader view of the political system and of the place of the second Chamber in that system. That requires clear thought and reflection. Agreement on the role and functions of the second Chamber should be a prerequisite to deciding the composition.1360Parliament and the Legislative ProcessLord Norton of Louth
1361: My Lords, I echo my noble friend's welcome for the report. I am absolutely delighted it has been produced. Like him, I disagree with about half of it, but let me start with the positive things.1361Lord Lucas
: Yes.Noble Lords
1362: I am glad I have the right audience for this, my Lords.1362Lord Lucas
1363Companion: My Lords, on 20 December, there was a very interesting intervention from the noble Lord, Lord Williams of Elvel, on the Constitutional Reform Bill. He effectively complained about the abuse of the 1363CompanionLord Campbell-Savours
Official Report"are partly psychological, yet they are real and internationally resonant. Some administrative adjustments may now be advisable, but rather than throw away this special legacy, Parliament should surely take pride in it and build on it as essentially one of the highest lawyer's offices in the land, with powers of significance".—[Official Report"The advantages of the office of Lord Chancellor"—"This great office is a distinctive product of the United Kingdom's evolution. It carries a prestige which is irreplaceable … In international eyes""What is the greatest legal office in the world? Before the Bill was conceived, there could have been little doubt that it was that of the Lord Chancellor … His … high status has been an enduring symbol of the commitment of the United Kingdom to the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary … because he was a senior Member of the House of Lords and of Cabinet—an illustrious and universally respected lawyer who was able to speak with authority for all that the law represents … a kind of guarantor or watchdog of legality at the heart of the constitution"."presence on the Woolsack has symbolic significance underlying the history and unity of the United Kingdom, and the origins of this House as the Curia Regis ".Law Quarterly ReviewLaw Quarterly Review1364: My Lords, I speak only to the recommendations as to the Speakership at Question Time in paragraph 12 of the report, which takes a step forward from the report of your Lordships' Select Committee, which was based on the assumption that the office of the Lord Chancellor would be abolished, as was the Government's intention.Official Report"are partly psychological, yet they are real and internationally resonant. Some administrative adjustments may now be advisable, but rather than throw away this special legacy, Parliament should surely take pride in it and build on it as essentially one of the highest lawyer's offices in the land, with powers of significance".—[Official Report"The advantages of the office of Lord Chancellor"—"This great office is a distinctive product of the United Kingdom's evolution. It carries a prestige which is irreplaceable … In international eyes""What is the greatest legal office in the world? Before the Bill was conceived, there could have been little doubt that it was that of the Lord Chancellor … His … high status has been an enduring symbol of the commitment of the United Kingdom to the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary … because he was a senior Member of the House of Lords and of Cabinet—an illustrious and universally respected lawyer who was able to speak with authority for all that the law represents … a kind of guarantor or watchdog of legality at the heart of the constitution"."presence on the Woolsack has symbolic significance underlying the history and unity of the United Kingdom, and the origins of this House as the Curia Regis ".Law Quarterly ReviewLaw Quarterly Review1364Lord Campbell of Alloway
13661365: My Lords, I welcome the report and thank the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, and his colleagues for their efforts in putting it together. It contains some extremely interesting ideas that—I very much hope that they will be tried on an experimental basis—if adopted would make your Lordships' House even more efficient and effective.13661365Lord Parekh
1367: My Lords, I rather think it would be unwise to follow the noble Lord on some of the things that he was just talking about. My noble friend Lord Wakeham once answered a Question on that matter, and I refer the noble Lord to that Answer, which I am certain was a total clarification.1367Lord Trefgarne
1368: My Lords, I, too, thank the Hunt committee for its useful work, which is certainly nothing if not provocative. I, like many other speakers starting with the noble Lord, Lord Wakeham, find the proposals too managerialist and controlling. I must confess that, in the six or seven years that I have been here, I have been amazed at how well this Chamber has worked. It seems to me that it has extraordinary flexibility and good will. I honestly believe that, in the proceedings and procedures of this House, we cannot take any lessons from the other place, which very often churns over Bills and passes them to us with large parts completely unscrutinised.1368Lord Phillips of Sudbury
1369: My Lords, it is now almost impossible to confer on anyone that which was conferred on me: to be one of those Peers who was elected to remain in this House. It is a particular honour, as I believe that members of my family have been in one or both Houses since the 14th century. When I finally go, that will be the last of the Onslows. There may be great roaring cheers, but it will be a matter of regret to myself in view of the enormous honour bestowed on me.1369The Earl of Onslow
1372"the House should become more disciplined and abide by its rules and procedures",Daily Telegraph1371"Asked if the long-awaited plan on future composition would be in the manifesto for the election expected on May 5, she said: 'No. I think there is still more work to be done'"."Labour back-pedals on reform of the Lords".Daily Telegraph: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, on introducing this debate with his usual fluidity and reasonableness. As a result he has provoked a debate of high-quality speeches and a certain high-mindedness, which fills me with a certain trepidation because I fear that I shall lower the tone a little by trying to put some of these proposals in a political context as far as the next steps are concerned.1372"the House should become more disciplined and abide by its rules and procedures",Daily Telegraph1371"Asked if the long-awaited plan on future composition would be in the manifesto for the election expected on May 5, she said: 'No. I think there is still more work to be done'"."Labour back-pedals on reform of the Lords".Daily TelegraphLord McNally
: My Lords, will the noble Lord give way?Lord Campbell-Savours
: No, my Lords.Lord McNally
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, the total installed capacity for wind power up to the year ending December 2004 is 890 megawatts, of which 766 megawatts is onshore and 124 megawatts is offshore. In 2004,240 megawatts of new wind capacity were installed and, in 2005, we expect a further 600 megawatts of wind power capacity to be commissioned.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Trade and Industry (Lord Sainsbury of Turville)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that helpful reply. I believe that it is becoming clear that the 2010 target is, to say the least, fragile, but we wish him every success in the attempt to meet it.Lord Tombs
1258: My Lords, I hope I made it clear that while I believe the target to be very difficult to achieve, it is perfectly possible that we can achieve it. At the end of 2004, we estimate that 3 per cent of the UK's electricity was produced by renewables, and by the end of 2005 we estimate that the figure will be nearer 4 per cent. There is 4,000 megawatts of capacity in the pipeline, half of which has planning permission, which if it is built has the potential to produce 4 per cent of electricity. There is also the second round of the offshore wind
1258Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, much as I wish my noble friend well in his targets, does he agree that those targets are remarkably long on optimism and remarkably short on realism, particularly when one considers that the 2010 target must then be doubled again by 2020? If we fail on either of those targets, it is imperative that we have non-carbon producing electricity generation, which requires the sustenance and maintenance of our nuclear capacity so that we are in a position to do that by 2020.Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, I was speaking about the targets for 2010. It is of course true that the target for 2020 would be achievable only by bringing in other sources of renewable energy. That is why between 2002 and 2008 we will be putting more than £500 million into emerging renewables and low-carbon technologies. As I have said before in this House, we have not ruled out the nuclear option, and if we are not going to be able to achieve those targets we shall consider nuclear power again.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, does the Minister agree with the policy of my party that local communities must have a say in where wind turbines and wind farms are placed? Given that, could he possibly comment on the fact that the Prime Minister has supported and listened to his local community in helping to stop four wind turbines being sited near Sedgefield? Given that, how is anyone ever going to meet their targets?Baroness Miller of Hendon
: My Lords, obviously the question of getting planning permission for wind turbines is a considerable issue. However, it is quite right that across the country, including in the Prime Minister's constituency, there should be the ability to object to this as part of people's democratic rights. All wind turbines have to go through the planning process—that seems to me totally right. That does produce problems in getting planning permission, though it is interesting that 80 per cent of people who have a wind turbine within five kilometres of where they live are actually in favour of wind turbines.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, how do the Government propose making good any possible shortfall in the renewables target? When would they propose reaching decisions on that?Lord Ezra
1259: My Lords, clearly that is something that we keep under review. The two methods
1259Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, given the very long lead times in nuclear generation, can the Minister say whether the Government have any serious fall-back position before we wait until 2010 to do anything about it?Lord Marsh
: My Lords, as I said, we will constantly review this. If it becomes clear that we are not going to be able to achieve our goals, the nuclear option will still be there. As for planning for it, the major close-down of nuclear power stations begins in 2020.I think that we still have time to deal with the situation and have a proper review of it.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, how many planning applications have been submitted so far and how long after their submission is it taking for them to be either granted or refused?Lord Taylor of Blackburn
: My Lords, I do not have those figures. If we have them, I will be very happy to write to the noble Lord to let him have them.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, whatever the objections may be to wind-power farms in the Sedgefield constituency, I guess they are as nothing compared with the environmental objections to a huge proposed wind farm on Shap Fell in Cumbria. It is totally unacceptable. Will the Minister encourage the Prime Minister to object to that one, too?Lord Jopling
: My Lords, I think that the Prime Minister has better things to do than to go all around the country objecting to wind turbines. If we are going to talk about environmental damage, we should just ask ourselves what the environmental damage will be if we do not do something about emissions. The flood and coastal defences study which we have just done under Foresight suggests that, in extreme situations, the annual bill for flood and coastal damage would rise to £20 billion from the current figure of £1 billion. So let us be clear that no solution will be cheap. On the other side, if we get it wrong, it will be extremely expensive.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, the Government would be prepared to consider culling badgers as part of an integrated bovine TB control programme, but only if the available scientific evidence supported it as a cost-effective and sustainable option. We are, of course, aware of the recently published results of badger culling research carried out in Ireland. We have referred that work to independent scientists to advise on the relevance of the findings to the disease situation in Great Britain.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, I am grateful for the noble Lord's Answer. He is aware of the University of Dublin's five-year tuberculosis trials in Donegal, but is he aware that those trials have conclusively reduced the incidence of TB in cattle by 96 per cent? As the Government are going to spend £2 billion on this over the next 10 years, should they wait any longer to implement such trials in this country? If so, why?Lord Rotherwick
: My Lords, trials are going on in this country. Although the noble Lord is correct to say that there was a success rate of over 90 per cent in one of the four areas in Ireland, there were varying rates of success in different topography and with different densities of cattle and badger populations. The full implications of the Irish studies have to be taken into account, and they will be taken into account by our independent scientists. It is instructive to note that the Irish Minister has said that the conclusions from those studies have not led her to change the overall balance of the policy they have adopted in the Irish Republic.Lord Whitty
"It is now clear that bovine TB is endemic in the British badger population and so far has been recorded in 16 of the 61 counties".: My Lords, is the noble Lord aware that one of the reports to which he referred me in Questions for Written Answer stated that, in 1988:
"It is now clear that bovine TB is endemic in the British badger population and so far has been recorded in 16 of the 61 counties".The Countess of Mar
1261: My Lords, I have said before, and I repeat, that no one is disputing that bovine TB can be carried by badgers and can cause its spread in cattle. The question is whether that is always the main cause of the spread of TB. It is clear that cattle movements and the lack of bio-security also play a part. It is not clear that a simple culling of badgers will have the effect that the noble Countess suggests. It had a differential effect even in the Irish trials—and there are trials in the UK where the effect of a full cull has led simply to more diseased
1261Lord Whitty
: My Lords, has the Minister considered the pressure on dairy cows? In my area—I have lived there for almost 40 years—more pressure has been put on cattle. Does that reduce their resistance to disease? What does research indicate on that?Lord Pilkington of Oxenford
: My Lords, if the noble Lord means that increasing production pressure in relation to dairy cattle has of itself led to greater susceptibility to disease, it is, of course, true that the more densely packed cattle are, the greater the possibility that they will contract the disease from a single source, whether that is cattle or badgers. However, I do not think that the increased productivity of dairy herds has any effect.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, how long is it anticipated that these latest independent studies which have been commissioned will take? Will the Minister give some reassurance to farmers in the hotspots, particularly those in the south-west, who weekly send off reactor cattle but are told that they cannot touch a hair on the heads of badgers on their farms which they know to be infected, that the refusal so far of Defra to make a decision on this is not the result of fear of confronting badger protection groups as farmers believe?Baroness Mallalieu
: My Lords, I recognise that there is a bigger problem in the south-west than elsewhere. Those are the areas where cattle are most heavily affected and where the disease has not been contained. However, in total the number of herds affected went down last year and the amount of time during which herds are subject to restriction has also gone down. Therefore, there is some rolling back of the disease. As regards why we are not prepared to accept the simplistic view that simply culling badgers would resolve the problem, we have put in place a number of trials which will last until 2006. The results of those trials will inform policy beyond that date. It will take at most a few months for the independent scientific group to assess the relevance of the Irish trials to the British situation. That will occur well before the completion of our own trials.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, will the Minister publish the results by area of the analysis of badgers killed on the roads and the percentage and number of those badgers that tested positive for bovine TB?Lord Livsey of Talgarth
1262: My Lords, the results in those counties where that testing is carried out are passed to the independent scientific group as additional information to be considered with information relating to the culling that is being carried out within those areas. The group will take that information into account in
1262Lord Whitty
: My Lords, at present around 73 per cent of UK households can access digital terrestrial television services. This figure cannot be increased before switchover.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
: My Lords, but that means that 27 per cent of the country and, indeed, the whole population of the county of Cumbria cannot receive digital Freeview television until switchover. Has my noble friend any information that he can give us on when we can expect to receive that full range of digital services in the county of Cumbria?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, my arithmetic is the same as that of the noble Lord, Lord Campbell-Savours. No, I cannot make an announcement about the roll-out of digital switchover, although we shall be consulting on that very shortly and Ofcom will be consulting on it next month. However, my noble friend may have noticed that the draft digital replacement licences which were published by Ofcom in December include not only the final date but also the first transmitter regions to be addressed. The first one happens to be Border.Lord Mclntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, will the Government give assurance that when digital switchover occurs, it will not lead to domination by Sky and other such services, but that the freed-up spectrum will be used to enhance the range of free-to-air programmes?Baroness Bonham-Carter of Yarnbury
: My Lords, we have always given an undertaking that when digital switchover takes place it will be affordable and accessible. You have to read those two together to draw the conclusion that we are relying fundamentally on digital terrestrial television to achieve the conditions for switchover.Lord Mclntosh of Haringey
1263: My Lords, I am sure the Minister will agree that Freeview is a real success story.
1263Baroness Buscombe
: My Lords, I entirely agree that Freeview is a huge success. The relevant figure has reached almost 4 million from nothing in something like two years, which is quite an achievement. I also agree that it is very important that everyone, including manufacturers and retailers, should be making customers aware of the availability of integrated digital television sets and, of course, of set-top boxes. That is why, with the co-operation of the major retailers and manufacturers, we have launched the digital tick logo which is available in retailers with explanatory material and a stick-on for approved materials. We are also carrying out a major public relations campaign. When we make the announcement about all the details of the roll-out towards digital switchover in the course of this year, we will, of course, intensify those efforts.Lord Mclntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, admirable as the success of Freeview is, is it not unfortunate and not really in the public interest that Test matches and crucial Premier League football matches should be available, and likely to remain available, only on the expensive, profit-driven Sky television channel?Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: Hear, hear!Noble Lords
: My Lords, I can see that the noble Lord, Lord Wedderburn, has touched a chord in the House with his question. I think it is well known that the Government have their disagreements with the English Cricket Board and some other sporting authorities about the way in which negotiations have been conducted with broadcasters, and sympathise with the view, which we have endeavoured to protect with the listed events procedure, that major sporting events should be available free-to-view.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, when the digital switchover comes, will all those who have only analogue televisions be required to buy a new television? If so, what do the Government propose to do to dispose of all the excess analogue televisions that will be floating around the country?Lord Swinfen
1264: My Lords, in reply to the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, I touched on the answer to that question. It is possible to get digital without disposing of your analogue television by buying a set-top box. So it is not necessarily the case that there will be more analogue sets being thrown out.1264Lord Mclntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, can we be assured that at the time of switchover, Skysat will not be in a position to exploit the market?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, I think that the noble Lord is referring to Freesat, which is the offer from BSkyB to provide digital satellite services for a fee of something like £150 with no obligatory subscription. That is a useful addition to the other expansion of digital, which is being carried out both on terrestrial television and by cable.Lord Mclntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the Government have introduced a number of measures to improve household energy efficiency, including reduced VAT rates for professionally-installed energy saving materials and the landlords' energy saving allowance. Budget 2004 also announced the Government's intention to consider a green landlords scheme. The Government continue to explore options for using other cost-effective fiscal measures to improve household energy efficiency, taking account of economic, social and environmental objectives. Any decisions on the further use of fiscal instruments to incentivise household energy efficiency will be made by the Chancellor within the Budget timetable.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for that generally encouraging Answer. Does he recall that last year the Government reduced the carbon emissions objective in the domestic sector from 5 million tonnes per annum by 2010 to 4.2 million tonnes due to the slower than expected uptake of insulation measures? Is it not a fact that in the private domestic sector, energy efficiency is generally lower than in the social sector, as revealed by successive House Condition Surveys? Should the Government be looking even more seriously at providing incentives in the private domestic sector, particularly by means of the measures indicated in the Question?Lord Ezra
1265: My Lords, the noble Lord is right that the greater problem lies in the private-owned domestic sector, which is why we are considering measures that will be appropriate to that sector to provide the incentives for energy saving. He will recognise that one crucial area, which we are watching carefully, requires field trials to be completed. As the actual product for insulation in homes cannot be ready until later this year, we have time to evaluate those field trials and work out how we incentivise people to
1265Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there is no shortage of energy? If there was a scarcity, the market and the price mechanism would reflect that perfectly adequately. Why is taxpayers' money being used to subsidise energy, when there is no more case for subsidising the efficient use of energy than, say, the efficient use of foodstuffs, or anything else?Lord Lawson of Blaby
: My Lords, we are all concerned about the question of energy consumption, and we all recognise that there are substantial changes in the nature of our energy supply in the United Kingdom, as has been attested in many debates in this House on energy provision. We are also concerned with reducing waste. In a world in which many areas are going energy-short and are obliged to exploit forms of carbon-based energy that increase greenhouse gases, it behoves us all to follow a strategy that reduces our dependence on such developments.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I agree wholeheartedly with what the Minister said, and I disagree with my noble friend Lord Lawson. Is it not a fact, as the Minister said, that, since carbon-produced electricity is one of the major sources of increases in carbon dioxide emissions, all of us are becoming increasingly worried about the speed at which this is happening? One's heart sinks when one hears that the Government are considering further measures and a decision will eventually be taken by the Chancellor. Why do the Government not get on with it, as the noble Lord, Lord Ezra, said, and introduce something positive quickly? For example, a fiscal incentive for those who install double-glazing would quickly make houses much more energy efficient.Lord Renton of Mount Harry
: My Lords, there is an incentive to householders to install double-glazing, and we have a range of measures to give support to energy conservation in those terms. It is not fair to suggest that one should regret that a great deal of these measures lie with the Treasury, which is proactive and creative on this. I apologise if I produced dissention on the Benches opposite about these strategies; I was hoping to engender healthy debate.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, can the Minister tell the House whether the vast number of new houses that the Deputy Prime Minister has indicated that he wishes to build for about £60,000 each will contain all of these energy-efficient measuresBaroness Miller of Hendon
1266: My Lords, it is certainly our intention to build to a high standard. We are encouraging new build, and the incentives are already in place for cavity walls and improved insulation for lofts and roofs. In those areas, we are already giving incentives
1266Lord Davies of Oldham
: All right, my Lords.Lord McNally
: My Lords, is not the essence of the noble Lord's case based on the fact that the Liberals have immense power in the House of Lords? They hold the balance of power in a way that is totally disproportionate to their membership numbers in the House of Lords.Lord Campbell-Savours
: No, my Lords. My case is based on a belief and a love of Parliament and parliamentary democracy. If the noble Lord really believes that a government in the other place with a three-figure majority based on 20 per cent of the popular vote will not undermine the credibility of our Parliament, he disappoints me greatly.Lord McNally
: Oh!Noble Lords
: I can point them all out, my Lords. It should be lively, irreverent and, as the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, indicated, just a little dangerous.Lord McNally
13761375"to sit around waiting for the Opposition to play the voting game".1374: My Lords, that speech certainly stirred up this debate. I thank the noble Lord, Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, for initiating the debate. Like many noble Lords, I enjoyed reading the report, perhaps at no point more than when I got to the second page and it talked about this new House testing the boundaries of some of the conventions.13761375"to sit around waiting for the Opposition to play the voting game".1374Lord Strathclyde
1377apparatchik: My Lords, I start by saying a few words in tribute to Lord Aberdare, who passed away on Sunday. Lord Aberdare had a long and proud record of service. He served in the Welsh Guards throughout the Second World War and later had a distinguished parliamentary career. He entered this House in 1957 and served as Chairman of Committees, Minister of State in the Department of Health and as Deputy Speaker. Indeed, I am sure that Lord Aberdare would have welcomed this debate, having himself chaired a group which looked at how to improve the conduct of business in the House. His dedication to public service was matched only by his enthusiasm for tennis and his support of the Tennis and Racquets Association. Along with all noble Lords, I feel his loss deeply. On behalf of the whole House, I should like to pass on our condolences.1377apparatchikThe Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
apparatchik: My Lords, all I want to say to the noble and learned Lord is this. Has he not heard of the sinner that repenteth, and that there is more room? Is it not lovely to see someone like the noble Lord, Lord McNally, behaving like a parliamentarian and not as an apparatchikThe Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, yes, I have heard that sinners can repent. I simply urge noble Lords to look at the noble Lord, Lord McNally, with some degree of scepticism. That is all.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, perhaps I may say to all noble Lords that the road to Damascus is a very pleasant journey. On the Salisbury convention, perhaps I may give a little warning to the Government Front Bench because I can see how their minds are working. I do not think that I was wrong in my interpretation. The Salisbury convention was for a different House of Lords at a different time. We may well have to examine the convention, but if this Government think that on 20 per cent of the popular vote and a couple of lines in a manifesto they can emasculate this House of Lords, that is a matter that we would take to the hustings.Lord McNally
: My Lords, if the noble Lord takes it to the hustings, I hope that he will abide by them. If the hustings say they want it, I would have thought it right not for the Lords to stop it, but to give effect to the House of Commons. I do not understand why the noble Lord, Lord McNally, says that he would take it to the hustings and then ignore the result. With the greatest respect, his position has no logic to it whatever.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords—Lord McNally
: My Lords, I think I must get on.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords—Lord McNally
: Order!Noble Lords
138113801379pace1378: My Lords, I think I must get on. Like everyone else, I congratulate my noble friend Lord Hunt on procuring the debate. I also congratulate him on the quality of his contribution to
138113801379pace1378Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, could the noble and learned Lord give an example of when we have put a Bill in peril by talking too much?Lord Lucas
: My Lords, we had to agree to carry over the Constitutional Reform Bill. The Bill took 10 months to get out of this House and a great deal of time was spent on it.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, if one looks over the past two years, the Bills which have gone beyond the so-called 60-day limit proposed by the noble Lord, Lord Hunt, have, on the whole, been those on which the Government have introduced a large number of amendments on Report or at later stages. It is not the fault of this House; it is merely that the Government have realised that Bills have had to be amended. Therefore, this artificial limit would reduce the quality of consideration.Lord Roper
1382: My Lords, the 60-day period is, in general cases, generous. We would need to consider, if this proposal went ahead—and I am simply saying that these proposals need to be discussed— whether there needs to be provision to extend the time, particularly in the circumstances that the noble Lord, Lord Roper, posits; namely, the Government bringing forward lots of amendments. It would plainly be totally unfair on the 59th day for a Government to produce great tranches of amendments. But if the proposal were to go forward, we would need to deal with that situation.1382Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords—Lord Renton of Mount Harry
: My Lords, do you mind if I do not give way, because I only have one more minute?Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Order!Noble Lords
1384"It is the duty of the Lord Chancellor ordinarily to attend the Lords House of Parliament as Speaker of the House".1383: Thank you, my Lords.1384"It is the duty of the Lord Chancellor ordinarily to attend the Lords House of Parliament as Speaker of the House".1383Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, it is late and I shall be very brief, particularly given the fact that the noble Lord, Lord Jopling, pointed out—and he has me bang to rights—that I went over my time in my introductory remarks.Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: My Lords, I was member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights which scrutinised this legislation twice—in fact more than that. Although I am no longer a member of the committee, I can say that it will very much welcome the Statement made in the other place, and repeated by the noble Baroness, as a vindication of the way in which the Human Rights Act has worked in this case.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
"intend to ensure that any future powers we take in legislation are wholly compatible with the provisions of the ECHR"?: My Lords, I am bound to say that I find the Statement very depressing. Indeed, I find the response of the opposition parties somewhat depressing as well. Does the Minister accept that the proposed control orders will inevitably involve a deprivation of liberty contrary to Article 5 of the European convention—and, indeed, probably of Article 11, as that also involves the deprivation of the right to association? Does that not inevitably mean that there will have to be another derogation from the convention by this country to replace the order of derogation so recently quashed by this House in another capacity?"intend to ensure that any future powers we take in legislation are wholly compatible with the provisions of the ECHR"?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
Lord Grocott.: My Lords, I beg noble Lords' pardon—I am making the mistake that I am accusing everyone else of making. As soon as the five goes up, it is time to finish. Please assist us all in that respect.Lord Grocott.Lord Grocott
: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend the Leader of the House, I beg to move the Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.Lord Grocott
: My Lords, why do we not alter the clock? We have this problem every time. Why do we not start with "1" on the clock and then there would not be part of the problem to which the noble Baroness drew attention?Lord Ackner
: My Lords, we found that internment without trial did not work during the IRA Troubles—which, let us remember, were partially financed from the United States. Large numbers of bombs went off here in London and in other parts of the United Kingdom. We found that internment without trial was not only counterproductive, but against the law and every tradition with which we should be proud to associate ourselves, so why are we taking this step? How many other common—law countries—Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the United States—have felt the necessity to introduce internment without trial?The Earl of Onslow
1275: My Lords, we take no pleasure in saying that during the passage of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001, we expressed serious concerns about Part 4. But this is obviously not the time for recrimination. Nor do we wish to open up the whole debate about civil liberties of individuals against the security of our country. That is because we are in a fortunate position that the valuable work undertaken by various committees has given the most detailed and closest attention to the issues involved.1275Lord Dholakia
1274"evidential use of intercept would be likely to help … [convict] some serious criminals".1273"However, the review of intercept as evidence found no evidence to support this and I have consequently made a Written Statement today stating that the Government do not intend to change the existing arrangements"."certain key Middle Eastern and North African countries".Hansard"to preserve our democracy against those who seek to destroy it through terrorist attacks","these are all difficult issues with no easy answers",1272: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for repeating the Statement on the replacement of the Part 4 powers in the Anti-terrorism, Crime and
1274"evidential use of intercept would be likely to help … [convict] some serious criminals".1273"However, the review of intercept as evidence found no evidence to support this and I have consequently made a Written Statement today stating that the Government do not intend to change the existing arrangements"."certain key Middle Eastern and North African countries".Hansard"to preserve our democracy against those who seek to destroy it through terrorist attacks","these are all difficult issues with no easy answers",1272Lord Henley
1282: My Lords, I join others in recognising how difficult it is, in a democracy, for the Government to shape anti-terrorism measures. The responses to the two major points made by the
1282The Lord Bishop of Chester
: My Lords, as a non-lawyer among many erudite lawyers, perhaps I may ask question for clarification. Does this packet of measures seek to maintain the distinction between international terrorism and national terrorism, such as that pursued by the IRA and the UDA? Do the Government intend that the penalties for international terrorism will continue to be more severe than those applying to national terrorism?Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, given that detention of suspects will not be allowed under the new legislation to replace Part 4, will the Government oppose applications for bail from current detainees, subject of course to appropriate conditions being imposed on that bail? If so, how would they justify that opposition?Lord Goodhart
1278: My Lords, as I am the only member of the Privy Council review committee who is able to be here, I thank my noble friend for her kind words about its contribution. Perhaps I ought also to thank the Judicial Committee of this House for making some of our suggestions rather more palatable to the Home Office than they were at the initial stages.1278Baroness Hayman
1280: My Lords, I too have a mixture of responses to the Statement. I am grateful that the Home Secretary has acknowledged the judgment of our senior court. It would have been awful had we suddenly seen some kind of constitutional crisis develop, so I am content that we have had that more positive response.1280Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
: My Lords, I agree completely with the noble and learned Lord. He has been here longer than I and he knows that changing things in the House of Lords takes time.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, perhaps I may remind the House of a point made by the Government Chief Whip that when six minutes is indicated on the clock, Members should have completed their six minutes. The instant—the second—that "6" appears on the clock should be the end of the six minutes.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware that great satisfaction will have been felt among those who have experienced and know about interception from the Statement that my right honourable friend the Home Secretary will not change its use in courts? Does my noble friend agree that interception is a wide, complex and sensitive matter— it does not mean only phone tapping, as the noble Lord, Lord Henley, seems to believe—and that putting the product of any interception operation into the public domain inevitably reveals techniques and sources that have to be protected?Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: My Lords, I hear what my noble friend says, particularly given her wisdom and experience of such matters. I thank her for her support. We understand the wide complexity of intercept material. Those who seek to limit it simply to phone tapping indeed misunderstand it.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, it would be wholly inappropriate for me to talk about specific cases. The House will know that, under the provisions of SIAC now and for the whole time that they have been in place, it is and has always been open to those detained to apply for bail. When such applications are made, the Government have, in accordance with our duty, considered the nature of the threat and the application and have responded accordingly. We will continue to do so in the event of any application being made.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for her contribution. I hope that I made clear that the Government were looking at the detail. We were considering whether the scheme that we put in place would need derogation or not and that there had not been a decision in relation to that, because we have not yet set out the specific detail in relation to it. Regarding the standard of proof, we will seek to put in place the appropriate test that will be applied in relation to obtaining the control order. Of course we have looked at other suggestions and will continue to look at suggestions that may better fit the position in which we now find ourselves. But I hope that my noble friend will accept that in making those difficult decisions, the Government have continued to strike a balance which is fair and proportionate in relation to the threat with which we are now faced.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1281: My Lords, I hope I have made clear that we have had to take into account the consequences of the decision made by the Judicial Committee of this House in relation to the
1281Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I wholeheartedly agree with my noble friend that there is no single golden bullet in relation to the issue, and that we will need a range of measures. However, it is right to emphasise what was said in the Statement—that prosecution must always be, where possible, the preferred option. We are looking at other solutions where prosecution is not possible, for particularly delicate and difficult reasons, but we hope that they will be rare cases indeed. I agree with her on the importance of looking at the threat posed by the individual concerned. We will continue to look at the range of measures discussed, to try to put forward the most effective package to keep this country safe.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1279: My Lords, I acknowledge the passion with which the noble Earl
1279Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1276: My Lords, I thank both noble Lords for the constructive and helpful way in which they have responded to the Statement and in particular for the compliments that have been paid to
1276Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, of course I understand the import of what the noble and learned Lord says. However, I hope that it was made plain in the Statement that our primary responsibility must be the safety and security of this country. We will look with a great deal of care at the nature and the extent of the control orders. I am not in a position to help your Lordships with the precise detail, and we know that the devil is always in the detail. We will strive to produce a framework that is consistent with the ECHR. However, in the Statement, my right honourable friend the Home Secretary also made it plain that, in the end, he must make sure that the security of this country comes first. That heavy responsibility rests on his shoulders.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
My Lords, that concludes the statement."This will be contentious but I believe the need for us to protect ourselves against the threat justifies the changes I propose. I commend this Statement to the House"."I am, of course, very well aware that the proposals I am making today represent a very substantial increase in the executive powers of the state in relation to British citizens who we fear are preparing terrorist activities and against whom we cannot proceed in open court."My principal responsibility as Home Secretary is to preserve our democracy against those who seek to destroy it through terrorist attacks. The threat is real and I believe that the steps I am announcing today will enable us more effectively to meet that threat."These are all difficult issues with no easy answers. A careful balance has to be struck between the rights of individuals and the protection of society against threats from organisations which seek to destroy central attributes of our society, such as freedom of belief, speech and association, freedom of expression and even our central democracy. All parts of our society—Parliament, the legal system, the media—need an open debate about this so that we understand the complexities of the security situation we face. I will shortly be bringing forward detailed proposals about the best way to conduct this debate."We believe that those detained under the Part 4 powers continue to pose a threat to national security and that we should seek to ensure that we take all the necessary steps to address that threat."Those currently certified and detained were certified as being suspected international terrorists on the basis of a careful Security Service assessment of the significant threat they pose, and that judgment has been upheld by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission."For this reason I will not be revoking the certificates on the current detainees between now and when the new legislation is in place, unless the threat they pose changes and they no longer meet the criteria for certification."I told the House on 16 December that I intended to renew the Part 4 powers as necessary. However, my desire is to bring forward a Bill to give effect to control orders as soon as practicable. I can see advantages if it were possible to enact the Bill to a timescale which makes renewal unnecessary. Should that not be possible, I will seek to renew the Part 4 powers for the limited time necessary to put the new arrangements in place. I will need to lay the renewal order in draft and will do so tomorrow.1271"I have sought advice from the Director-General of the Security Service and the Metropolitan Police Commissioner about the powers we need to deal effectively with the public emergency threatening the life of the nation, and to deal with British and Foreign nationals whom we have grounds to believe are engaged in terrorism. On the basis of their advice, my judgment is that the range of powers I have outlined above, including a criminal sanction for breach, will be essential if we are to contain the threat which those who may be made subject to control orders pose to public safety."The Government, of course, intend to ensure that any future powers we take in legislation are wholly compatible with the provisions of the ECHR, if necessary employing a new derogation to that effect."The key features of the scheme will be: that the Secretary of State would consider whether, on the basis of an intelligence assessment provided by the Security Service, there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that an individual is or has been concerned with terrorism; and, if the answer to this is yes, and he or she considers it necessary for the purposes of protecting the public from terrorist-related activities, he or she would impose controls on that individual. There would be a range of controls restricting movement and association or other communication with named individuals; the imposition of curfews and/or tagging: other restrictions on access to telecommunications, the Internet and other technology. At the top end, control orders would include a requirement to remain at their premises; the controls to be imposed under the new scheme will not include detention in prison although I intend that breach of a control order should be a criminal offence, triable in the usual way through the criminal courts and punishable by imprisonment; there will be independent judicial scrutiny involving the hearing of evidence in open and closed session, against the imposition of the order or any subsequent variation of its provisions; a mechanism for reviewing and modifying conditions as circumstances warrant subject again to independent judicial scrutiny; other safeguards will include the Secretary of State reporting regularly to Parliament on the number of orders made et cetera; independent annual review of the powers, as now with the Part 4 powers; and annual renewal of the powers. I am considering separately what role the ISC might play here."Control orders would be used only in serious cases. The controls imposed would be proportionate to the threat each individual posed. Such orders would be preventive—designed to disrupt those seeking to carry out attacks, et cetera, whether here or elsewhere., or who are planning or otherwise supporting such activities. They would be designed directly to address two of the Law Lords' concerns— on discrimination and proportionality.1270"The Government have therefore decided to replace the Part 4 powers with a new system of control orders. We intend that such orders should be capable of general application to any suspected terrorist irrespective of nationality or, for most of the controls, the nature of the terrorist activity (international or
1270"So there are cases where we remain unable to prosecute. However, that does not mean that we should do nothing to forestall or prevent suspected terrorists planning, assisting or otherwise supporting those willing to carry out attacks."Intercept provides only part of the intelligence against individuals, sometimes a small part. It does not stand alone. Some of the material we have in these cases is inadmissible, and other material while technically admissible could not be adduced without compromising national security, damaging relationships with foreign powers or intelligence agencies, or putting the lives of sources at risk."There is a widespread misconception that if only we could adduce intercept as evidence we should be able to prosecute those detained. However, the review of intercept as evidence found no evidence to support this and I have consequently made a Written Statement today stating that the Government do not intend to change the existing arrangements."I want to make it clear that prosecution is, and will remain, our preferred way forward when dealing with all terrorists, and all agencies do operate, and will continue to operate, on this basis. But all of us need to recognise that it is not always possible to bring charges, given the need to protect highly sensitive sources and techniques."As the House knows, we have been trying for some time now to address the problems posed by individuals whose deportation could fall foul of our international obligations by seeking Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with their countries of origin. We are currently focusing our attention on certain key Middle Eastern and North African countries. I am determined to progress this with energy. My right honourable and noble friend Lady Symons of Vernham Dean visited the region last week and she had positive discussions with a number of countries on which we are now seeking to build."The Government believe that the answer lies in a twin-track approach: specifically, deportation with assurances for foreign nationals who we can and should deport; and a new mechanism—control orders—for containing and disrupting those who we cannot prosecute or deport."In these circumstances, I repeat, my judgment is that there remains a public emergency threatening the life of the nation. The absence of the Part 4 powers would present us with real difficulties, and so I now set out the ways in which we can meet this threat.1269"Within the past year, for example, we have seen the multiple attacks in Spain in March 2004, attacks at Al Khubar in Saudi Arabia in May, the attack on the Australian Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia in
1269"The ATCS Act was enacted because there was an unprecedented terrorist threat to the United Kingdom, which was assessed to emanate from A1'Qaeda and those individuals and groups within the loosely co-ordinated series of overlapping terrorist networks linked to it. Our understanding of the threat has advanced since then, both from an increasing intelligence base and through the investigation of both successful and thwarted attacks. It is clear that some British nationals are now playing a more significant role in these threats. At the same time, networks, consisting of foreign nationals with international links, remain."My starting point is the threat which we face. This is of course a heavy responsibility for all concerned and one which has the highest priority of all. That is why I have to take account of events happening around the world and, in particular, here at home. I have had frequent discussions with the Director-General of the Security Service and the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police since my appointment. I am left in absolutely no doubt that nothing has happened recently which diminishes the threat or calls into question the state of public emergency threatening the life of the nation."That said, however, I accept the Law Lords' declaration of incompatibility with the ECHR of Section 23 of the ATCS Act. I accept, too, the Lords' judgment that new legislative measures must apply equally to nationals as well as non-nationals. But we still need to decide how to deal with the threat presented by terrorists without the assistance of the Part 4 powers."The Government believed that the Part 4 powers were justified because: the threat appeared to come predominantly, albeit not exclusively, from foreign nationals; foreign nationals do not have the same right to be here as British nationals; and, against the background of the strong condemnation of terrorism contained in UN Security Council Resolution 1373, it was necessary to take positive action against peripatetic terrorists who happened to be living here."They have, moreover, had another effect. It is clear from the intelligence reports that I have seen that the existence, and use, of these powers has helped to make the United Kingdom a far more hostile environment for international terrorists to operate in, with the result that some have been deterred from coming here and others have left entirely to avoid being certified and detained. I am pleased about that. The United Kingdom must never be regarded as a soft touch or a safe haven for terrorists.1268"The Part 4 powers were the means of containing their activities where prosecution was not possible. I can tell the House that the Government believe that the powers have played an essential part in
1268"It is true that the Part 4 powers apply only to foreign nationals. The reason for this is that, when we looked at the very real threat we faced from international terrorism in the immediate aftermath of the terrible events of 11 September, we were able to identify a small number of foreign nationals resident here who posed a particular danger to us. Prosecution for their activities was not possible for evidential reasons, although two of those certified and detained under the Part 4 powers have since been convicted of criminal offences, and there was no realistic prospect of deporting them."It did so because it considered that the Part 4 powers were discriminatory in that they applied only to foreign nationals and that, as a response to the threat we faced from terrorism, they were not proportionate."On 16 December last year, the House of Lords Judicial Committee handed down its judgment on the compatibility of the Part 4 powers with the ECHR. It quashed the Human Rights 1998 (Designated Derogation) Order 2001 and declared Section 23 of the ATCS Act incompatible with Article 5 (the right to liberty) and Article 14 (freedom from discrimination) of the ECHR."Despite concerns when we legislated for Part 4, the powers have been used very sparingly with only 17 people certified since the powers were introduced. Those currently certified and detained were certified as being suspected international terrorists on the basis of a careful Security Service assessment of the significant threat they pose, and that judgment has been upheld regularly by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission."As the House well knows, the Part 4 powers are immigration powers. They enable me to certify and detain, pending deportation, suspected international terrorists who, because of our international commitments, we cannot remove."These matters have of course received the closest attention in this House and in another place through the work of the Intelligence and Security Committee, the Home Affairs Committee and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, to all of which I pay respect. I appreciate, too, the valuable work carried out by a committee of Privy Counsellors under the chairmanship of the right honourable Lord Newton of Braintree, and of course we have the regular advice of Lord Carlile of Berriew on the operation of both the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 Part 4 powers and the Terrorism Act 2000. This work shows the comprehensive scrutiny which both Houses give to these difficult issues. Of course, what I am saying today follows on from the consultation paper which my predecessor published in February last year and which has informed the conclusions I am presenting today.1267"With permission, Mr Speaker, I should like to make a Statement about the future of the powers in Part 4 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 (the ATCS Act).: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement made earlier today in another place by my right honourable friend the Home Secretary. The Statement is as follows:
My Lords, that concludes the statement."This will be contentious but I believe the need for us to protect ourselves against the threat justifies the changes I propose. I commend this Statement to the House"."I am, of course, very well aware that the proposals I am making today represent a very substantial increase in the executive powers of the state in relation to British citizens who we fear are preparing terrorist activities and against whom we cannot proceed in open court."My principal responsibility as Home Secretary is to preserve our democracy against those who seek to destroy it through terrorist attacks. The threat is real and I believe that the steps I am announcing today will enable us more effectively to meet that threat."These are all difficult issues with no easy answers. A careful balance has to be struck between the rights of individuals and the protection of society against threats from organisations which seek to destroy central attributes of our society, such as freedom of belief, speech and association, freedom of expression and even our central democracy. All parts of our society—Parliament, the legal system, the media—need an open debate about this so that we understand the complexities of the security situation we face. I will shortly be bringing forward detailed proposals about the best way to conduct this debate."We believe that those detained under the Part 4 powers continue to pose a threat to national security and that we should seek to ensure that we take all the necessary steps to address that threat."Those currently certified and detained were certified as being suspected international terrorists on the basis of a careful Security Service assessment of the significant threat they pose, and that judgment has been upheld by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission."For this reason I will not be revoking the certificates on the current detainees between now and when the new legislation is in place, unless the threat they pose changes and they no longer meet the criteria for certification."I told the House on 16 December that I intended to renew the Part 4 powers as necessary. However, my desire is to bring forward a Bill to give effect to control orders as soon as practicable. I can see advantages if it were possible to enact the Bill to a timescale which makes renewal unnecessary. Should that not be possible, I will seek to renew the Part 4 powers for the limited time necessary to put the new arrangements in place. I will need to lay the renewal order in draft and will do so tomorrow.1271"I have sought advice from the Director-General of the Security Service and the Metropolitan Police Commissioner about the powers we need to deal effectively with the public emergency threatening the life of the nation, and to deal with British and Foreign nationals whom we have grounds to believe are engaged in terrorism. On the basis of their advice, my judgment is that the range of powers I have outlined above, including a criminal sanction for breach, will be essential if we are to contain the threat which those who may be made subject to control orders pose to public safety."The Government, of course, intend to ensure that any future powers we take in legislation are wholly compatible with the provisions of the ECHR, if necessary employing a new derogation to that effect."The key features of the scheme will be: that the Secretary of State would consider whether, on the basis of an intelligence assessment provided by the Security Service, there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that an individual is or has been concerned with terrorism; and, if the answer to this is yes, and he or she considers it necessary for the purposes of protecting the public from terrorist-related activities, he or she would impose controls on that individual. There would be a range of controls restricting movement and association or other communication with named individuals; the imposition of curfews and/or tagging: other restrictions on access to telecommunications, the Internet and other technology. At the top end, control orders would include a requirement to remain at their premises; the controls to be imposed under the new scheme will not include detention in prison although I intend that breach of a control order should be a criminal offence, triable in the usual way through the criminal courts and punishable by imprisonment; there will be independent judicial scrutiny involving the hearing of evidence in open and closed session, against the imposition of the order or any subsequent variation of its provisions; a mechanism for reviewing and modifying conditions as circumstances warrant subject again to independent judicial scrutiny; other safeguards will include the Secretary of State reporting regularly to Parliament on the number of orders made et cetera; independent annual review of the powers, as now with the Part 4 powers; and annual renewal of the powers. I am considering separately what role the ISC might play here."Control orders would be used only in serious cases. The controls imposed would be proportionate to the threat each individual posed. Such orders would be preventive—designed to disrupt those seeking to carry out attacks, et cetera, whether here or elsewhere., or who are planning or otherwise supporting such activities. They would be designed directly to address two of the Law Lords' concerns— on discrimination and proportionality.1270"The Government have therefore decided to replace the Part 4 powers with a new system of control orders. We intend that such orders should be capable of general application to any suspected terrorist irrespective of nationality or, for most of the controls, the nature of the terrorist activity (international or
1270"So there are cases where we remain unable to prosecute. However, that does not mean that we should do nothing to forestall or prevent suspected terrorists planning, assisting or otherwise supporting those willing to carry out attacks."Intercept provides only part of the intelligence against individuals, sometimes a small part. It does not stand alone. Some of the material we have in these cases is inadmissible, and other material while technically admissible could not be adduced without compromising national security, damaging relationships with foreign powers or intelligence agencies, or putting the lives of sources at risk."There is a widespread misconception that if only we could adduce intercept as evidence we should be able to prosecute those detained. However, the review of intercept as evidence found no evidence to support this and I have consequently made a Written Statement today stating that the Government do not intend to change the existing arrangements."I want to make it clear that prosecution is, and will remain, our preferred way forward when dealing with all terrorists, and all agencies do operate, and will continue to operate, on this basis. But all of us need to recognise that it is not always possible to bring charges, given the need to protect highly sensitive sources and techniques."As the House knows, we have been trying for some time now to address the problems posed by individuals whose deportation could fall foul of our international obligations by seeking Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with their countries of origin. We are currently focusing our attention on certain key Middle Eastern and North African countries. I am determined to progress this with energy. My right honourable and noble friend Lady Symons of Vernham Dean visited the region last week and she had positive discussions with a number of countries on which we are now seeking to build."The Government believe that the answer lies in a twin-track approach: specifically, deportation with assurances for foreign nationals who we can and should deport; and a new mechanism—control orders—for containing and disrupting those who we cannot prosecute or deport."In these circumstances, I repeat, my judgment is that there remains a public emergency threatening the life of the nation. The absence of the Part 4 powers would present us with real difficulties, and so I now set out the ways in which we can meet this threat.1269"Within the past year, for example, we have seen the multiple attacks in Spain in March 2004, attacks at Al Khubar in Saudi Arabia in May, the attack on the Australian Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia in
1269"The ATCS Act was enacted because there was an unprecedented terrorist threat to the United Kingdom, which was assessed to emanate from A1'Qaeda and those individuals and groups within the loosely co-ordinated series of overlapping terrorist networks linked to it. Our understanding of the threat has advanced since then, both from an increasing intelligence base and through the investigation of both successful and thwarted attacks. It is clear that some British nationals are now playing a more significant role in these threats. At the same time, networks, consisting of foreign nationals with international links, remain."My starting point is the threat which we face. This is of course a heavy responsibility for all concerned and one which has the highest priority of all. That is why I have to take account of events happening around the world and, in particular, here at home. I have had frequent discussions with the Director-General of the Security Service and the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police since my appointment. I am left in absolutely no doubt that nothing has happened recently which diminishes the threat or calls into question the state of public emergency threatening the life of the nation."That said, however, I accept the Law Lords' declaration of incompatibility with the ECHR of Section 23 of the ATCS Act. I accept, too, the Lords' judgment that new legislative measures must apply equally to nationals as well as non-nationals. But we still need to decide how to deal with the threat presented by terrorists without the assistance of the Part 4 powers."The Government believed that the Part 4 powers were justified because: the threat appeared to come predominantly, albeit not exclusively, from foreign nationals; foreign nationals do not have the same right to be here as British nationals; and, against the background of the strong condemnation of terrorism contained in UN Security Council Resolution 1373, it was necessary to take positive action against peripatetic terrorists who happened to be living here."They have, moreover, had another effect. It is clear from the intelligence reports that I have seen that the existence, and use, of these powers has helped to make the United Kingdom a far more hostile environment for international terrorists to operate in, with the result that some have been deterred from coming here and others have left entirely to avoid being certified and detained. I am pleased about that. The United Kingdom must never be regarded as a soft touch or a safe haven for terrorists.1268"The Part 4 powers were the means of containing their activities where prosecution was not possible. I can tell the House that the Government believe that the powers have played an essential part in
1268"It is true that the Part 4 powers apply only to foreign nationals. The reason for this is that, when we looked at the very real threat we faced from international terrorism in the immediate aftermath of the terrible events of 11 September, we were able to identify a small number of foreign nationals resident here who posed a particular danger to us. Prosecution for their activities was not possible for evidential reasons, although two of those certified and detained under the Part 4 powers have since been convicted of criminal offences, and there was no realistic prospect of deporting them."It did so because it considered that the Part 4 powers were discriminatory in that they applied only to foreign nationals and that, as a response to the threat we faced from terrorism, they were not proportionate."On 16 December last year, the House of Lords Judicial Committee handed down its judgment on the compatibility of the Part 4 powers with the ECHR. It quashed the Human Rights 1998 (Designated Derogation) Order 2001 and declared Section 23 of the ATCS Act incompatible with Article 5 (the right to liberty) and Article 14 (freedom from discrimination) of the ECHR."Despite concerns when we legislated for Part 4, the powers have been used very sparingly with only 17 people certified since the powers were introduced. Those currently certified and detained were certified as being suspected international terrorists on the basis of a careful Security Service assessment of the significant threat they pose, and that judgment has been upheld regularly by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission."As the House well knows, the Part 4 powers are immigration powers. They enable me to certify and detain, pending deportation, suspected international terrorists who, because of our international commitments, we cannot remove."These matters have of course received the closest attention in this House and in another place through the work of the Intelligence and Security Committee, the Home Affairs Committee and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, to all of which I pay respect. I appreciate, too, the valuable work carried out by a committee of Privy Counsellors under the chairmanship of the right honourable Lord Newton of Braintree, and of course we have the regular advice of Lord Carlile of Berriew on the operation of both the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 Part 4 powers and the Terrorism Act 2000. This work shows the comprehensive scrutiny which both Houses give to these difficult issues. Of course, what I am saying today follows on from the consultation paper which my predecessor published in February last year and which has informed the conclusions I am presenting today.1267"With permission, Mr Speaker, I should like to make a Statement about the future of the powers in Part 4 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 (the ATCS Act).The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, certainly, in the operation of the control orders, there could be a very wide spectrum of intervention—from those who may need to report at certain times, to those who need to be tagged. There can be a combination of measures. Regarding the right reverend Prelate's other comments, the Government have tried to keep those matters very much in balance.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the noble Lord knows perfectly well that it would be quite inappropriate for me specifically to comment about that case. Of course the Government are looking at their duty. I thank the noble Lord for the comments he made about the nature of my right honourable friend the Home Secretary's Statement. These are issues that will continue to provide the Government with anxious consideration.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, following Royal Assent to a Bill providing for a referendum, secondary legislation will be required to set the detailed rules under which any referendum in future will be held. Further secondary legislation will be needed to cover the detailed rules for this specific referendum, plus further legislation extending the referendum provisions to Gibraltar. Other issues that affect the period between Royal Assent and a referendum, including the referendum period itself, are still under consideration and will be matters for parliamentary decision.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that rather informative and helpful reply. Whether one believes that this massive new constitution is good for the United Kingdom and the future of Europe or bad for them—I admit that I am in the latter camp, like most people—will the Minister at least reassure us, after what she said, that there is no question of choosing a date for the referendum that mixes it up with national or local elections in any way, because to do so would be flouting the advice of the independent Electoral Commission?Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, I am very glad that the noble Lord found it informative; the question of what all the secondary legislation covered certainly took some getting to grips with. The noble Lord's views on the advisability or otherwise of the constitution will not come as a surprise to any of us, but I hope that my answer to his last point will not be a surprise either. The Government will of course take consideration of the advice that is offered by the independent commission.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
1386: My Lords, will my noble friend the Minister give me a commitment that in order to combat ignorance and ensure an informed
1386Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
Guide to the European Union: My Lords, factual information is available to your Lordships. There is the factual information in the Guide to the European UnionBaroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, bearing in mind the length and complexity of the treaty which is necessary to ensure that actions taken by Union institutions are not the arbitrary exercise of power but are in accordance with rules predetermined and pre-agreed by the member states of the Union, do the Government recognise that voters in the referendum will require time to assimilate the kind of information that the Government are making available and to judge not only whether the document is appropriate to achieve those predictable ends but also what would be the consequences for this country and for the European Union of Britain seeking to become an offshore island?Lord Maclennan of Rogart
1387Sun: My Lords, I agree with what the noble Lord has said. I think that there is still a great deal of confusion about this constitutional treaty. There has to be consultation on the secondary legislation—three parts of it, to which I referred when answering the noble Lord, Lord Howell of Guildford. That consultation will be not only with interested parties here but with, for example, the Government of Gibraltar on their secondary legislation. There is then the question, of course, of the referendum period itself; that is, the phase during which the Electoral Commission receives applications from organisations which want to be designated as official "Yes" or "No" campaigns.1387SunBaroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, since the constitutional treaty repeats a great part of what is already in the Treaty of Rome as amended from time to time, will the Minister say whether people are going to be told with reasonable clarity what are the new matters on which attention should really be focused?Lord Slynn of Hadley
: My Lords, yes; I think that that is an important factor. But in addressing the important factor of what is really new in this treaty, we also need to deal with some of what I have just described as the popular myths that have unfortunately taken root and are being peddled by some of our excellent press in this country as newly introduced measures under this treaty, which they most certainly are not.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, in the light of the noble Baroness's last sentence, and given that continued effective membership of the European Union is an objective loudly proclaimed by the leadership of every major party in this House, can she tell us what is the earliest date on which we might expect the Prime Minister and his colleagues in government to start expounding the merits and value of that continuing membership as vigorously as they should be doing?Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, I agree that we all have rather different interpretations of what we mean by "effective membership". I am sure that the noble Lord, Lord Howell, wants us to be effective members, and so do I, but our interpretations of what that really means in fact are very different. The implication of the question asked by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe of Aberavon, is that the Prime Minister has not begun to state very clearly what the position of the Labour Party—the party of government at the moment—is on this question. I believe that the Prime Minister has stated that very clearly. I believe that the question needs to be addressed with energy and vigour. In your Lordships' House, while I am able to do so at the Dispatch Box, I shall do so.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, does my noble friend believe that decision-making will become more bureaucratic and time consuming if this constitution is not ratified by the 25 countries of the European Union?Lord Harrison
1388: My Lords, yes, I believe that that is the case. I can hear some grumbling from the Benches opposite. One of the reasons why we need this constitution is that we are currently running on provisions that were drawn up originally for a group of six which then expanded, as we know, at various points over the years. We now have a group of 25—it may expand even further—but are still running on provisions that have not been fundamentally altered in that respect.
1388Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords—Lord Dykes
: I am sorry, my Lords; we need to move on.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, as my noble friend is aware, it was necessary to suspend the roll-out of the programme of the national firearms licensing management system as a result of a number of technical difficulties that came to light during piloting of the system last year. Most of those have now been successfully resolved, including one of the key issues, which was the inability to print the certificate. The question of slow running is still being investigated. Once that has been resolved, a new roll-out schedule will be negotiated with individual forces. The total cost of the project is expected to be about £6.2 million.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for giving the latest instalment in this sorry saga. Given rising gun crime, is it not a continuing risk to public safety that after seven years the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Home Office still do not have a national firearms database up and running, as Parliament decided? Why, after spending these millions of pounds on what looks like another IT fiasco in Whitehall, are we still without a protective database of this kind? Will the Minister confirm that the Metropolitan Police and Lancashire Constabulary are to run a joint pilot scheme in April and May, following a pilot scheme last year, which, as he reminded the House, revealed that the certificates could not be printed and that in any event the scheme ran far too slowly to be of any effective use to the police?Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
1389: My Lords, we are trying to avoid a computer fiasco—plenty of examples of such fiascos exist that we all know about. We will not roll out and run the system until we are confident that it will work. It would not serve any purpose trying to roll out a system if the printing were slow. I understand that the problem with regard to that slowness arises in the individual police networks, not in the lines from Hendon where the base is situated.1389Lord Rooker
: My Lords, does the Minister understand how important it is to get this system up and running, given that it is seven years since Parliament said that it was necessary, and given the endless statements on the matter by Ministers in this House, including the noble Lord and the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland? The inability of the Home Office to get under a million people with firearms certificates on to a single computer gives one no confidence that the Home Office has the competence to introduce an identity card scheme which would cover 60 million people.Lord Marlesford
: My Lords, I say in answer to the supplementary question of my noble friend Lord Corbett that the Met and Lancashire Constabulary will continue to be involved in the pilot; in other words, it is a continuous pilot. They were involved in the pilot last year and they will continue to be involved in it.Lord Rooker
1390: My Lords, is not my noble friend right to continue pursuing this matter, not least, as he has said today, to draw the House's attention to the problems that we will face in believing that the Home Office is capable of delivering a robust
1390Baroness Anelay of St Johns
: My Lords, I refer to what is behind some of the questions—I do not impugn what anyone has said—namely, that the Home Office perhaps did not like the policy that we are discussing. However, as was said to me this morning, if the Home Office had wanted to block it, that could have been done much more easily, much more cheaply and at a much earlier point than dragging the situation out for seven years. In other words, there is a commitment in the Home Office to get this system up and running. I want this House to pursue Ministers, and Ministers to pursue officials, on the matter.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the Minister wants us to take a continuing interest in this matter. I assure him that with the noble Lords, Lord Corbett and Lord Marlesford, firmly gripping each ankle there is no likelihood that it will disappear from our agenda. Has the Home Office any other initiatives as regards the root problem which has become much worse during the eight years that we have waited for the system—gun ownership and gun crime—and which this register was supposed to counterbalance?Lord McNally
1391: My Lords, there has been an overall increase in the level of gun crime. In 2003–04 the increase was less than 1 per cent. The number of offences has risen each year since 1997–98. However, the 2003–04 rise is the smallest in that period. The figures also show a decrease of 7 per cent in the use of hand guns in the period 2002–03. Excluding air weapons, gun crime as a proportion of recorded crime has remained fairly static at about 0.17 per cent. We
1391Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the provisions relating to retrials for serious offences in England and Wales will be announced as soon as possible.Baroness Scotland of Asthal (The Minister of State, Home Office)
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that helpful reply. This Question is absolutely coincidental to the previous Question, which also dealt with delay. I should declare an interest: as long ago as 1997, as president of the Police Superintendents' Association, I campaigned for a change in the law on double jeopardy. More recently, I accompanied Mrs Anne Ming, the mother of a murder victim in Teesside, who was supportive of a change in the law to make it retrospective. Does the Minister agree that in cases of murder, where there has been a perverse acquittal and subsequently there is found to be new and compelling evidence, it is important that the retrial takes place speedily, not least for the closure that is required by the victim's relatives but also because it would put right a substantial miscarriage of justice?Lord Mackenzie of Framwellgate
: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend on the importance of retrials for serious offences in appropriate cases. For that reason, we introduced the provisions of Part 10 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003. I absolutely agree with my noble friend that these issues should be undertaken as speedily as is reasonably practicable.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, are there any cases where there is an application to be made with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions for an acquittal to be reviewed by the Court of Appeal? How many are there and what is the need for these provisions?Lord Thomas of Gresford
1392: My Lords, I do not have those precise figures, but the noble Lord will remember that when we debated these issues extensively during the passage of the Criminal Justice Act, the need for such provisions was clearly laid out
1392Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, what was the cause of the delay in implementing them?Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: My Lords, there has been a great deal of work in preparation, both in relation to the guidance and to the rules. I would very much have liked to come to your Lordships' House today with a precise date. Indeed, my brief says three things: "as soon as possible", "on 23 March" and "on 4 April". I am not able to pick which and, therefore, I say to your Lordships, "as soon as possible".Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, can the Minister indicate the number of serious cases that are being re-examined by the police and does the Stephen Lawrence case form part of those investigations?Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, I am unable to give the noble Lord the answer he seeks, but these provisions have been long awaited by a number of families, not least those cases where the defendant has been acquitted and subsequent DNA material and other fairly convincing material indicates that the acquittal may not have been sound. For those families, I cannot over-emphasise how much they have longed for these provisions. So, perhaps I may assure the House that we very much understand why we need to inject a degree of urgency and that I have strained every muscle to be able to come to your Lordships' House today to announce a date. It is a matter of great frustration to me that I am not able to say the date which I would most like to pick. But I assure your Lordships that I shall continue in my endeavours.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, my noble friend will know that "as soon as possible" is capable of having a multitude of meanings. It could mean a distant or a near prospect. Do I understand from the comments of my noble friend today that "as soon as possible" means "spring"?Lord Richard
: My Lords, your Lordships can be absolutely sure that it will be spring.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1393: My Lords, as an independent university, it is for Oxford to decide its own academic strategy. I understand that it proposes an overall
1393Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply, but given the fact that Oxford loses out badly to its US competitors, building bigger endowments for our universities must surely be a priority. Does the Minister accept that the Government's recent announcement of £7.5 million a year to boost endowments, not only pales into insignificance, compared to the Conservatives' pledge of £500 million a year, but will make no difference whatever in helping our best universities and our brightest students?Baroness Morris of Bolton
: No, my Lords, I do not accept the premises that the noble Baroness puts to me. The traditions of endowments in the United States are very different, due to the background of charitable giving. When you look at the endowments system, for example, at Harvard University—I believe that some 14 billion dollars is invested to provide those endowments—and the money raised even by universities which do not have prestige of Harvard in the United States or in the world system, you can see how difficult it would be for the UK to mirror that. However, big efforts are being made, both by the Government and by universities. There has been a significant improvement at Oxford, Cambridge and many other universities. They should be congratulated on that.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that all but one of our universities have announced that they will charge the maximum £3,000 fees? If the Office for Fair Access, with its part-time director, who is a university vice-chancellor, cannot ensure that there is a range of fees available to our students, what on earth is the point of it? Does the Minister agree with that?Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, throughout the debate on this matter, we made it clear—and I thought that there was pretty wide support for this—that universities are independent institutions and they would come to their own decisions. The legislation around universities is designed to enshrine their independence—and those are the decisions to which they have come. Whether Sir Martin Harris is part time or not, I can hardly think of anyone with a more robust sense of what is needed to defend the United Kingdom system.Lord Triesman
1394: My Lords, I declare an interest as chief executive of Universities UK. Does my noble friend acknowledge that Oxford University's announcement shows the importance of overseas students, both culturally and financially, to the higher education sector? Does he agree that all government departments should support the recruitment of overseas
1394Baroness Warwick of Undercliffe
"we want our students to work as students in a diverse milieu, with people from many nations and cultures, which will better mirror the sort of world they will graduate into when they leave Oxford".: My Lords, the announcement by Oxford, which mirrors in some important respects the developments in other great institutions—for example, the London School of Economics—was about changing the environment and increasing the number of overseas students. The vice-chancellor of Oxford University, Dr John Hood, said on BBCl's lunchtime news that the steps were being taken because,
"we want our students to work as students in a diverse milieu, with people from many nations and cultures, which will better mirror the sort of world they will graduate into when they leave Oxford".Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does the Minister not appreciate that if his government do not let Oxford charge the level of fees that it wishes to, and then tell it how it should select its students, then this decision to accept more overseas students was predictable, inevitable and entirely the responsibility of the Government? The Government should stop trying to put pressure on the universities by lecturing and bullying them—and should respect their independence.Lord Baker of Dorking
: My Lords, you can have no greater respect for the independence of Oxford or any other university than to say that it is taking academic decisions about the quality of its academic life and the milieu that it wants to create. Some universities advocate that fees should become a free-for-all. Well, that will not happen. Moving the balance towards slightly more postgraduates—we are reaching nowhere near the ratio of postgraduates to graduates that Harvard, for example, has—is a decision about the quality of the research environment, and Oxford is perfectly competent to take such decisions.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that the chances of Oxford and Cambridge retaining their status as world-class universities will be enhanced as a result of their ability to charge the variable fees that the Government have introduced, but retaining that status would almost be impossible if the proposals of the party opposite to scrap those fees were to come into effect?Lord Faulkner of Worcester
1395: My Lords, I agree. The purpose of variable fees was to increase the income that universities required to retain their status. Universities also need to raise money by other routes. In the case of Oxford University, I understand that it will be selling land valued at some £80 million over the next two years. It has an income of some £20 million to £21 million from Oxford University Press. All such factors will help. Variable fees are unquestionably a
1395Lord Triesman
: My Lords, returning to the question of overseas students, has any assessment been made of the indirect, as well as the direct, value to the economy made by overseas students who go on to hold influential positions in their own countries?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I will check whether that has been modelled. I think that it was the University of Strathclyde that participated in research some years ago on such figures. I will check to see if there are contemporary figures. The newspaper coverage in other countries of the fact that Oxford University would potentially be encouraging more postgraduates from those countries, showed that that was met with widespread celebration. Not all of us read the newspapers from Kerala of a morning, but it was thought there to be a splendid world achievement.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the Minister said a few moments ago that international students were flooding into this country. There has been a decline in our market share, as six years ago some 16 per cent of international students came to this country, and we were second only to the United States. Now, the figure is down to 11 or 12 per cent, and we are equal with Germany in the share of international students. Are the Government doing anything to encourage international students to come here to boost our universities?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, a great deal of effort is going into attracting students, both from the Government and individual universities that run bilateral arrangements with other countries and do a huge amount of their recruitment in other countries. The set of figures that has just been presented could be misleading. The reality is that there is much greater movement of students around the world. Overall, the percentage that each country has varies over time, but the numbers reflected—which is the critical thing for a UK university—show that there is a great attraction of students from all over the world to United Kingdom institutions.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: I add my warm endorsement of these amendments, which are of considerable importance. I suspect, in fact I know, that the Minister needs no persuading on the iniquities of those individuals who exploit confused elderly people by tricking them into making purchases that they do not need, or by overcharging them for goods or services that they have received.Earl Howe
1398: I support the amendments as well. Perhaps I see them in a slightly different light in certain respects. To begin with, I see them prospectively as a deterrent for those who may be inclined to take advantage of vulnerable people. The better care agencies would wish to draw to the attention of the people for whom they provide that there may be a strong liability if they do certain things that they should not.1398Lord Christopher
14001399: The noble Earl, Lord Howe, is right that I need no convincing about trying to deal with unscrupulous behaviour, particularly towards elderly people. I have a lot of experience of that. I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for raising the matter. I am also grateful to my noble friend Lord Christopher, who raised very particular issues which we will come to in the course of the Bill's passage, but about which I have had the privilege of talking to him at length.14001399Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1401: I am grateful to the Minister for expressing sympathy with the problems that arise in cases of this kind. However, I am a great deal less grateful for the fact that she is not prepared to do anything about it in the Bill. Quite correctly, she criticised the way in which these amendments are drafted. I have to say that I did not draft them myself, but those points are of course all curable.1401Lord Goodhart
: The noble Lord is absolutely right in his interpretation—that is, financial powers of attorney can be used with or without capacity. An example of that is that at present people can and do use enduring powers of attorney when they have capacity. They may feel that they are no longer able to deal with certain things, such as the tax return—I know that feeling. Another example may be where the individual or his family have gone to live abroad but they do not know the country and have appointed an attorney to deal with issues for them in this country. There are many such examples. Or it may be the case of an elderly person who is finding it difficult to handle some investments but is perfectly happy to use his money on a day-to-day basis. The provision is specifically designed to allow that to happen. Those are common occurrences now and we wish them to continue. I think that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, is with us on that.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1403: I am grateful to the noble Baroness. We are entirely agreed on the purpose here. What she has said goes some way towards satisfying my
1403Lord Goodhart
1406: The debate on Monday was one of high moral principle and great oratory. Today is the time to put on anoraks and get down to what I believe are some of the most important aspects of this legislation—the small, mundane things of life. I strongly support the noble Earl in all that he has said. Those who had the misfortune to be on the Joint Committee with me will know that I banged on endlessly about financial abuse.1406Baroness Barker
: I have added my name to the amendment in support of the noble Earl because we have been very worried about financial abuse for a very long time. As the noble Baroness said, the amendment puts in the element of balance. So this is feasible, while at the same time being a fairly routine and easy way to protect people against the sort of abuse we really have to do something about. I am very pleased that the Bill will eventually do that.Baroness Greengross
: Perhaps I may add one word of caution. I apologise to the noble Earl; I missed the context—it is not important to hear it again—in which he referred to general practitioners. But, from my own experience, to rely exclusively on them in present circumstances is a considerable risk. That is not a criticism of them at all, but they simply are not directly trained or involved in this area—and perhaps they should not be. That is a matter for consideration.Lord Christopher
: I would not like noble Lords in any way to pre-empt the Government's response to the amendment, but, on listening to the argument made out by the noble Earl, Lord Howe, it strikes me that there is the potential here for another point of abuse to be picked up and the red flag to occur in a way that may not happen otherwise. The principle behind the amendment is certainly extremely important even if the exact process may not be acceptable at the moment to the Government. The noble Earl has outlined another layer of safety for people.Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
14081407: I agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Finlay, that it is important to ensure that we identify points where the red flag goes up and people become concerned. I am very grateful to the noble Earl, Lord Howe, for bringing the amendment forward, not least because I think that he has half my speaking notes and the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, has the other half.14081407Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1409: I have a great deal of sympathy with the noble Baroness's point about flexibility. I have talked to different people who know that they are ill and will lose capacity, and who, in the absence of the Bill, have sought to make all sorts of arrangements, including having consultant gerontologists sign an agreement with their spouse that they have lost capacity, and so on. Up to a point, I accept her argument about flexibility.1409Baroness Barker
14111410: I am grateful to the noble Baroness and I understand her example, but what was in my mind while she was speaking was, first, the fact that it will involve not someone walking in with a piece of paper but a registered LPA. The noble Baroness may shrug her shoulders, but the importance of that is that the donor, who could be me, will have made a decision about who they wish to be their attorney. That is critical.14111410Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Before my noble friend sits down, perhaps she will be kind enough to respond to two questions. The first question relates to filling what I think is probably an inexcusable gap in my knowledge. What will be the legal status of the code of practice? That is not simply my worry; it has been expressed to me by others when discussing the legal basis.Lord Christopher
: A statutory code of practice means that courts would take it into account. If one departs from a statutory code, one has to give evidence as to why one has departed from it, which gives the statutory code legal force.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1412: This has been an extremely useful debate. I extend my thanks to the Minister, the noble Baronesses, Lady Barker and Lady Finlay, and the noble Lord, Lord Christopher, for having illuminated aspects of those quite tricky questions. At Second Reading, I said that quite a bit of what I wanted to raise in Committee was about balance and clarity, of which this is a classic example.1412Earl Howe
1413: I strongly support this amendment. Reinforcing the principles behind the Bill is crucial. One can imagine a situation where someone had powers and his decision-making was influenced by his own experience. We all have fears—sometimes irrational or deep-seated—of which we may not even be completely aware. But such views may alter the way in which we look at something, particularly if it is from someone else's point of view.1413Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: I rise to support the noble Earl in his amendment and to speak to Amendments Nos. 55 and 57, to which I have added my name. On Tuesday, I think it was the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, who talked about decisions that are benign but which are made unnecessarily on behalf of other people. Given that, my reason for attaching my name to these amendments is to highlight why they are needed. A carer for a person who lacks capacity may become so used to making decisions that, while they are clearly in the person's interests, doing so becomes a way of life. Over time, the carer begins to take over decision-making on aspects and activities where the person could be making those decisions for himself.Baroness Barker
1415"knows or has reasonable grounds for believing that P has capacity in relation to the matter".1414: I sympathise with what these amendments are trying to achieve. The proposal is very much in line with the spirit of the Bill by placing an emphasis on the principle of best interests, minimum intervention and our insistence on a functional approach to capacity.1415"knows or has reasonable grounds for believing that P has capacity in relation to the matter".1414Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am grateful to the Minister for her helpful reply, and to the noble Baronesses who spoke in support of these amendments. Turning first to Amendment No. 35, I thank the Minister for agreeing to look again at the point.Earl Howe
"new arrangements should be introduced requiring those who wish to work with children, or vulnerable adults, to be registered".14181417: I am grateful to the noble Earl. I must admit that the stamping part of the Bill is my favourite and I have been looking forward to debating it for several days."new arrangements should be introduced requiring those who wish to work with children, or vulnerable adults, to be registered".14181417Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1419: I am very sorry to hold the noble Baroness back. I heard what she said about the POVA list, and I quite understand why it is not possible to do
1419Baroness Barker
1420: I take the point completely. The noble Baroness has highlighted what I said was almost a contradiction. Because we can check something, there is no need to tick a box; because we cannot check something, the box has to be ticked. The noble Baroness is absolutely right.1420Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: There are many vulnerable people who have capacity but may be frail and vulnerable. Will they be protected under the Bill, or will it only be those without capacity?Baroness Masham of Ilton
: The whole purpose of the Bill, as I think the noble Baroness, Lady Masham, knows, is to try not to define a person as lacking in capacity, incapable or having capacity. For many people, as they get older, or because of illness, changes in capacity are fluctuating or gradual. It is a function of getting older. We are seeking to protect everybody by making it absolutely clear that incapacity is not a moment—it is a process.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1421: This is just the sort of debate in Committee that I enjoy and believe that we should have because it enables us to air some extremely important practical matters. We all agree about the end result; it is simply a question of how we get there.1421Earl Howe
: I will speak to Amendment No. 79 which is in this group, but before I do, I want to say that I strongly support the intent behind the amendment moved by the noble Earl, Lord Howe. As he said, conflicts of interest are everyday matters and things that families manage very well. However, when a conflict of interest is of such a magnitude it is right that it should at least be noted and registered, if not prohibited. I hope that that would apply to all powers of attorney, however informal the process of establishing it had been— whether or not there had been legal advice.Baroness Barker
"A requirement that a witness to an advance directive not be a person who stands to gain from the person's death, or employed at the relevant health care establishment which is caring for the person".1424: I also share the concerns voiced by the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, on that point. I am sure that we all agree that clarity in legislation is essential but sometimes we fall back on a certain amount of gobbledegook and anyone reading paragraph (2)(b) of Clause 23 would agree with the remarks just made. However, I particularly support what the noble Earl, Lord Howe, said on Amendment No. 40 about the important question of conflicts of interest. Many of us will have dealt with such situations. Certainly, when I was a constituency Member of Parliament I often dealt with disputes within families or between friends because of issues that would arise through conflicts and they were some of the most painful experiences that any of us could be involved in."A requirement that a witness to an advance directive not be a person who stands to gain from the person's death, or employed at the relevant health care establishment which is caring for the person".1424Lord Alton of Liverpool
: The reason I am here today is to raise on behalf of CSCI, and as the ex-deputy chair of the National Care Standards Commission, the serious concern that they have about the registered owners and their staff. It is important to consider not only the staff in care homes but the whole grouping who might become either LPAs or deputies. That is why I am in difficulties knowing on which amendment to make my point, so forgive me if I am procedurally wrong. The noble Earl, Lord Howe, is always so good at being eloquent. It would make it extraordinarily difficult for vulnerable people to have confidence in their care homes if they felt that these powers were in the hands of those who were registered to care for them.Baroness Howarth of Breckland
1425: First, my noble friend Lady Andrews will address in greater detail the very important point that the noble Baroness. Lady Howarth, has raised. I became aware of it when I saw the letter from the Commission for Social Care Inspection yesterday. I am going to seek a meeting with CSCI, as well, to explore the matter in greater detail. But I can tell the noble Baroness at the outset that we are very alive to the issue. There are no absolutes in this issue, as she will know, so we want to be clear about not ruling something out for ever in all circumstances. But there are real concerns, which she has raised, and my noble friend will discuss them in
1425Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Before the Minister leaves that point, she said earlier in our proceedings that she was aware that many people will never read the detail of the Bill but they will have a rough idea of what it allows. Would it not be sensible to codify in one part of the Bill all the questions around conflicts of interest? We will debate the different aspects of that when we discuss Amendment No. 64. But the matter arises at several points in the Bill, so would it not be sensible to bring it all together in the same place?Lord Alton of Liverpool
1426: The purpose of the Committee is to explore how far one codifies at all and how far one codifies in particular ways. The theme today has been how far one can codify in a way that does not move the balance too far in the other direction, and prevent people being involved in something that we are all supporting—that is, to create lasting powers of attorney for all the right and obvious reasons. So we are negotiating in a sense, or discussing how and when it is best to put such matters into the legislation, with all that that brings, when it is best to consider these matters in other ways, and how far one can differentiate between different kinds of relationships and interests. There may be conflicts in one set of circumstances, but none in another. That is very important. I am not against the noble Lord's proposal, but we are trying to explore the matter—and that is the joy of Committee, if I may say so.1426Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1427: I am a little concerned with that explanation. I think that a case where the donee was
1427Lord Goodhart
: I think that in that situation—and I am not a lawyer, as is about to become quite clear—you would be acting as both. You would not only be purchasing it for yourself but acting on behalf of the other person as their agent. You are therefore undoubtedly in a conflict. In those specific circumstances the court must intervene to ensure that it is done properly. That is my understanding of the situation, and we will ensure that that is the case. I saw that as the logic of the matter when I discovered that this provision was needed. There are times when one is acting both as agent for someone else and on one's own behalf. One cannot be in that conflicted situation, and therefore the courts must intervene.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Would not the other provisions about conflict of interest cover this point, rather than this specific provision? It seems to me an absolute conflict of interest, even if it is within the family.Baroness Greengross
1428: The noble Baroness is right to think that. But as we also know, it is important in primary legislation to ensure that there is a good fit with the other parts of the law. I will go away and see whether it could be done that way. However, I suspect that parliamentary counsel have included the provision because of the need to make it sufficiently clear so that lawyers looking at it will say, "I know what this means. This means that it must apply to the law of agency". As the wording did not carry that meaning for the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, I shall have to check it. However, as parliamentary counsel do not put in superfluous clauses, there must be a very important explanation for it. But I take the noble Baroness's point—which is one that I as a layperson would take.1428Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1429: I am sorry to interrupt the Minister again, but these are important questions. She has been very helpful in assisting us to explore them. She referred earlier to a situation where, for example, a house might be sold over the head of the person who previously lived there because they lost their capacity. As she said, in many cases a relative will be acting on behalf of someone with their wishes and will do so in a loving and caring way. However, we are all aware of circumstances where someone is given permission by the court which, on the face of it, seems a reasonable enough decision, that person comes to own the
1429Lord Alton of Liverpool
: The noble Lord has raised some very important points. I would say two things. First, above everything else, the Bill's theme and core is that the attorney must act in the best interests of the person concerned. The scenario that the noble Lord painted clearly would not be in the person's best interests. Therefore, the power of attorney could be revoked and the force of law could take its place.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am sorry to intervene as everyone is hungry, but I shall be quick. We talked about bankruptcy but there are other considerations. It may not be a case of someone being bankrupt. Would wilful neglect cover someone who puts an older person who is frail and vulnerable into very cheap accommodation as opposed to expensive accommodation, as the former person knows that he or she will benefit from doing that at a later stage?Baroness Greengross
1430: We are running ahead of ourselves. We will debate this matter later. It would depend on the circumstances. It depends what the noble Baroness means by cheap accommodation and expensive accommodation. However, it is difficult to say that that situation incorporates the best interest test and therefore the attorney's powers could be revoked and he or she would have no control over what happened to the individual in question. One way or another those circumstances are covered in the Bill, whether it is a question of neglect or best interest.1430Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1431: Once again I am very grateful to the noble Baroness and to Members of the Committee for what they have said in relation to these amendments. I am particularly glad that Amendment No. 40
1431Earl Howe
: I am sorry to interrupt the noble Earl but I want to make a distinction. When one signs the back of a passport photo to confirm that it is a photo of the relevant person, or when one confirms a signature, those are facts. However, the matter that we are discussing concerns opinion. How would one ever know whether the opinion of the person making the certificate was wrong, false or that he or she lied? I would be interested to hear how the noble Earl considers we could deal with that issue in the same way as we deal with facts. By the way, I have no idea what the penalties are for giving false information in relation to a person's passport. It is a question of facts versus opinions, which is a difficult issue to resolve.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1432: I take that point but if the noble Baroness pursues my example of the application for a shotgun licence, you are passing an opinion that the person who is applying for that licence is a suitable person to hold it. I have had occasion to refuse to give
1432Earl Howe
: I beg to move that the House do now resume. In doing so, I suggest that the Committee stage begin again not before 2.50 p.m.Baroness Andrews
1436: My Lords, I thank the Minister for introducing the statutory instrument in the way in which he did, and for giving details of the consultation. It is amazing how few responses come in to what one might expect to be a major issue. We have had debates about consultation before on some of our legislation from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, and it always astonishes me how little people wake up to the fact that something will have an influence.1436Baroness Hanham
1437: My Lords. I thank the Minister. On this very cold day, I got little warmth from the bonfire of regulation that he set forth—it was a pretty paltry bonfire. Local authorities were promised that, when the comprehensive performance assessment came in, they would receive all sorts of freedoms and flexibilities. As a local authority councillor, I know that we held our breath and waited and waited. All sorts of freedoms would have been very useful to local authorities—freedom from ring-fenced grants and the raft of inspection regimes, and so on.1437Baroness Scott of Needham Market
1438: My Lords, I confess to some astonishment at the less than full-hearted support that the order has received. There are some really poor local authorities—weak and poor, as classified by the Audit Commission, not the Government. I am not sure that either noble Baroness is saying that we should let them have their bonfire as well. You cannot treat authorities all the same, because they are not. I take it that there is a fair case to be made for authorities that are good, bordering on excellent, because they are obviously striving to be excellent. However, there are plenty of excellent authorities. We have to say, "You've got to prove yourself as an excellent authority, and we—the Government—won't put all this red tape and these extra burdens on you because you've shown that you can do the job". Removing the requirement to produce the plans does not in any way alter the requirement to do the work and provide the services to people. If authorities do not, they will lose their "excellent" classification and it will put them back to "good". Then they will be required to have more red tape and do things in a very prescriptive way. I made that point.1438Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I think that this order is unexceptional and I do not oppose it in any way.Baroness Hanham
: My Lords, we also support it from these Benches.Baroness Scott of Needham Market
1442: My Lords, this is much the most interesting of the three orders before the House today because it is unusual. It is not every day that one has the opportunity to discuss the City of London's affairs, even though it is to raise election expenses—twopence is twopence.1442Baroness Hanham
: My Lords, we on these Benches also support the order. I have one question for the Minister. It appears that a wait of something like eight years to uprate is quite significant. If one of my noble friends who understands more about the economy than I do were here, no doubt he would be able to say exactly what the uprating was and what the inflation rate has been since then. I do not know. Nevertheless, it seems to me that eight years is quite a long wait and it seems rather odd that it is entirely up to the Secretary of State to decide whether he believes there has been enough of a cost-of-living increase. Perhaps there might be some merit in considering an automatic four-yearly upgrade.Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, I fully accept the point. Eight years is probably an unacceptable time to wait. I asked why on earth I am using parliamentary time to bring forward an order relating to this important point, although, in the scale of things, it is not that supreme. As I have said, it is 21 per cent over eight years, which shows the stability of the economy. Over the eight years we have had an inflation rate that at one time occurred in one year when I was in the other place. So there has been a big success in dealing with the economy.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: I should like to support the noble Baroness in all that she said in relation to Amendment No. 52, and to speak in a little more detail on the other two amendments grouped with it.Earl Howe
14471446: I am grateful to noble Lords for explaining the purpose of their amendments. This group revisits some of our debates earlier today; it also anticipates some that we will have later when we consider conflict of interest, and so on. Essentially, the amendments are designed to ensure that people who lose capacity have the best possible protection. We completely agree and sympathise with that intention. It is imperative that those who may be very vulnerable should not be exposed to further vulnerability and should not be abused in any way. Of course we share those concerns.14471446Baroness Andrews
: I thank the noble Baroness for her customary full and considered response. I do not think that she will be surprised when I say that she has not fully answered the points that I made. Sometimes in my professional life, I talk to groups of pensioners. I am always amazed at the number who have not made a will. Half of the group say, "It's all right. My kids will sort it out". The other half say, "Oh no. You get your will sorted".Baroness Barker
"distressing and lengthy disputes between doctor and family".1451"However, the Government is not persuaded that a blanket exclusion of the power to refuse treatment is necessary"."While the Bill already states that deputies would be given powers that are as limited in scope and duration as possible, we understand the reasoning behind this recommendation. Giving a deputy the authority to refuse consent to the provision or continuance of life-sustaining treatment on behalf of a person who lacks capacity is very significant, and we understand the concerns that people have"."We strongly urge that the provisions allowing deputies to consent to treatment be restricted to exclude the withdrawal or refusal of life-sustaining treatment. Unless there is a valid LPA or advance decision expressing the individual's wishes in relation to the subject, decisions relating to the carrying out or continuation of life-sustaining treatment should be referred to the Court of Protection for determination"."it is highly likely that such an appointee will be some official such as the chief Social Worker for the area concerned. Thus the chief Social Worker for the area is likely to be making decisions about the provision of treatment (or even sustenance by tube) to the patient, and thus perhaps making decisions about whether that patient should continue to live or not, even though that social worker is not medically qualified and has no medical duty of care. That is clearly a matter for considerable concern"."if deputies can make a decision regarding withdrawal of treatment, the decisions need to go to court and be very, very seriously considered. I think the withdrawal of nutrition and hydration is a very painful experience and that if people choose to in their advance directive that is one thing, but to assume that for someone who does not have the capacity undermines their right to life".1450: I have added my name to Amendment No. 74 precisely for the reason just outlined by the noble Earl, Lord Howe. In fact, the discussions and subsequent recommendation of the Joint Committee were not borderline."distressing and lengthy disputes between doctor and family".1451"However, the Government is not persuaded that a blanket exclusion of the power to refuse treatment is necessary"."While the Bill already states that deputies would be given powers that are as limited in scope and duration as possible, we understand the reasoning behind this recommendation. Giving a deputy the authority to refuse consent to the provision or continuance of life-sustaining treatment on behalf of a person who lacks capacity is very significant, and we understand the concerns that people have"."We strongly urge that the provisions allowing deputies to consent to treatment be restricted to exclude the withdrawal or refusal of life-sustaining treatment. Unless there is a valid LPA or advance decision expressing the individual's wishes in relation to the subject, decisions relating to the carrying out or continuation of life-sustaining treatment should be referred to the Court of Protection for determination"."it is highly likely that such an appointee will be some official such as the chief Social Worker for the area concerned. Thus the chief Social Worker for the area is likely to be making decisions about the provision of treatment (or even sustenance by tube) to the patient, and thus perhaps making decisions about whether that patient should continue to live or not, even though that social worker is not medically qualified and has no medical duty of care. That is clearly a matter for considerable concern"."if deputies can make a decision regarding withdrawal of treatment, the decisions need to go to court and be very, very seriously considered. I think the withdrawal of nutrition and hydration is a very painful experience and that if people choose to in their advance directive that is one thing, but to assume that for someone who does not have the capacity undermines their right to life".1450Lord Carter
1452: My Amendment No. 80, dealing with the issue of second opinions, is grouped with these amendments. Before speaking to it, however, I should like to add my voice to that of the noble Lord, Lord Carter, in support of the arguments that have been so persuasively and eloquently put by the noble Earl. It will be dangerous for the person with incapacity unless we do something along the lines suggested in these amendments.1452Lord Alton of Liverpool
1453: I do not wish to repeat the detailed points that have been made so eloquently by those noble Lords who have already spoken, but I think that this is a very important principle in terms of the way decisions are taken. These complex decisions are being taken every day up and down the UK. This is not a rare event. The way these amendments are set out would provide a pathway to deal with taking decisions when disagreement or complexity surround them.1453Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
1454: Many disabled people have come to the House of Lords and said that there need to be more safeguards in the Bill. These amendments highlight that. I have attached my name to Amendment No. 80.1454Baroness Masham of Ilton
: I am attracted to the notion introduced by my noble friend Lady Finlay of the care plan that can be revisited from time to time. This is essential and defines the function of the second opinion. But would the care plan have been drawn up first, not only by the doctors but in the light of an advance directive if there were one?Baroness Warnock
"The court may exercise its power under subsection (5) only if it is satisfied that the circumstances are exceptional".: I wish to make one further point. I am sure that when the Minister replies she will draw our attention to Clause 20(6), which states:
"The court may exercise its power under subsection (5) only if it is satisfied that the circumstances are exceptional".Lord Carter
14561455: I am grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken for setting out the complex and extremely important issues that underlie the amendments. I shall not enter into an argument about whether the amendments are technically correct or incorrect because I know that their purpose at this stage is to tease out discussion about the issues.14561455Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Before the Minister leaves that point, I specifically asked her about the experience in Scotland. Amendment No. 80 is based on the Scottish legislation. Why did the Government reach different conclusions from those of their Scottish counterparts? Have we weighed the evidence and experience in Scotland in proceeding in the direction that the Minister has outlined?Lord Alton of Liverpool
1457: Indeed, I was going to come on to that point. I thought that I was becoming more eloquent rather than winding down. That is a fallacy on my part.1457Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I appreciate greatly the Minister's reply. We are all travelling in the same direction and want the same outcomes. Could we take this opportunity to revisit the draft code of practice and make sure that the guidance is strong enough? Second opinions should be given by not just anyone but by someone who has specific training at a higher level and can demonstrate it. Such people should keep a log of the number of times they are asked to provide a second opinion, and care plans should be formally audited over time so that a degree of experience builds up within the profession that drives up the standard. One of the great opportunities of this Bill is that we can encapsulate good practice and, in time, drive up the standard right across the board.Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: I should like to add something to my noble friend's comments about care plans. They should be kept up to date. I have just been doing my husband's care plan, and it gets out of date very quickly.Baroness Masham of Ilton
1458: I have no difficulty with revisiting the code of practice. I simply fear that we might
1458Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: This is the second time the Government have accepted a recommendation of the Joint Committee, which they did not do at the time. I am extremely grateful and will now see how many more agreements I can get.Lord Carter
: That is always a danger when I do anything.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
a priori: This has been a very gratifying debate, with some notable contributions from all quarters of the Committee. I am particularly grateful to the Minister for having taken the initiative to look at the power of court deputies. I am immensely appreciative of the obvious thought that she has devoted to this issue and believe that the Bill will be better for that decision.a prioriEarl Howe
1460: I strongly support the statements made by the noble Earl, Lord Howe. It is wholly wrong that appointeeship should not fall within the ambit of this Bill.1460Baroness Barker
146314621461: I am always open to temptation but this is one instance where I will have to resist. I hope that I can do so with some understanding of the problem and give noble Lords who have spoken some comfort about aspects of the existing situation.146314621461Baroness Andrews
1464: I hope that the noble Earl, Lord Howe, will not mind if I speak first.1464Baroness Barker
: I am sorry that my noble friend Lady Hollis made such a lightning appearance—I should have detained her, or maybe restrained her. I shall do my best to deal with those points. However, I think it unlikely that we will be able to provide the noble Baroness with the information in the form she requests on the number of appointees and whether they come from statutory authorities. I know that she is right about the close relationship that leads to their becoming appointees for people in residential care. However, we will certainly see what we can find out on that point.Baroness Andrews
1465: I beg the indulgence of the Committee to ask that when the noble Baroness writes to me she addresses an issue that has been raised by
1465Baroness Barker
: That matter relates to the answer I gave about the difficulty of involving the courts and the formalities that would be involved. There is also the problem of the typical four-month delay that arises in those circumstances. If a large number of people went through that system, the delays would be longer. Practical issues are involved here but I shall certainly write to the noble Baroness.Baroness Andrews
1466: The fact that the noble Baroness wears a velvet glove in presenting her case does not prevent me feeling as though I have been beaten to a pulp on this side of the Chamber. Nevertheless, she has taken great care to meet the spirit of these amendments so far as she possibly can, and for that I am grateful.1466Earl Howe
14681467: As the noble Earl said, some of the amendments have been anticipated by the welcome statement made by my noble friend about the emphasis on principles. I shall take Amendments Nos. 62 and 76 first, which propose that Clauses 16 and 20 be amended to the effect that the powers of the Court of Protection and court-appointed deputies are subject to the provisions of the Act and to Sections 1 to 4, on the principles of best interests.14681467Baroness Andrews
: I am very grateful to the noble Baroness for that full reply. I do not wish to add anything to my earlier comments, except to say that I shall reflect carefully on what she said before Report. I think that she allayed most of my concerns, and I totally understand her points about the POVA list, which we debated earlier. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
information, for example, a doctor, may voluntarily disclose relevant information to them so long as he complies with data protection principles".1470"The Bill requires that those engaged in caring for a person who lacks capacity, or who are interested in their welfare, should be consulted when a decision needs to be made. So the person holding: I rise to speak to Amendment No. 70A, which is in my name and in this group. It is a probing amendment and its obvious purpose is to require the court to appoint a suitable family member as a deputy in preference to a professional. The concept and the wording are taken from Clause 32(2)(a) of the Bill, which concerns the consultation of carers over research.information, for example, a doctor, may voluntarily disclose relevant information to them so long as he complies with data protection principles".1470"The Bill requires that those engaged in caring for a person who lacks capacity, or who are interested in their welfare, should be consulted when a decision needs to be made. So the person holdingLord Pearson of Rannoch
: I understand that in my absence from the Chamber just before lunch, for which I apologise, the Minister assured the Committee that there were difficulties in residential carers becoming attorneys. I raise the same point in relation to deputies. Those who are professionally employed as registered care home owners or their employees have real conflicts of interest in relation to this part of the Bill.Baroness Howarth of Breckland
: Does the noble Baroness agree that she could also put in to the categories that she has mentioned mentally handicapped people? Often, if they were born to elderly parents, they have no one. I support what she has said, that this Committee must not leave these people insufficiently cared for.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: I absolutely accept that. I was simply adding to the points made by the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, rather than detracting from them. I thought he made that point extremely eloquently on behalf of that group of people.Baroness Howarth of Breckland
1471: I see some conflict between this proposal and the one that follows in Amendment
1471Lord Christopher
: Of course I accept that the circumstances the noble Lord puts forward may arise. I think that he will accept that there is less likely to be some form of financial conflict of interest with the category of people I referred to. If they have lifelong impairment from birth, they are most unlikely to have the assets which can cause conflicts of interest, unlike other people who have had assets during their life, for instance, and who are covered by the Bill. With that proviso, I accept what the noble Lord says.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: I will support that briefly. When we get to Amendment No. 64 I shall try to show the other side of that story.Lord Christopher
: I would like briefly to inform the Committee of some correspondence I have received that supports Amendment No. 70A. It is from the Cardiff and the Vale Parents Federation, which has consulted with the All Wales Forum of Parents and Carers. Perhaps I may try to summarise its contents. The federation has consulted widely, including in England, as far as I can ascertain.Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
1472: I raise briefly one point relating to the amendment proposed by the noble Lord, Lord Pearson of Rannoch. There is a difficulty over the definition of next of kin. It is perfectly straightforward
1472Lord Walton of Detchant
: I should be perfectly happy to substitute the phrase put forward by the noble Lord.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: Perhaps I may speak briefly to Amendments Nos. 64 and 73 in the group, which again bear upon the theme of conflicts of interest. What I think is important in this context is not that conflicts of interest should be absent altogether, because very often that is impossible, but that there should be transparency.Earl Howe
prima facieprima facie1473: I apologise; I had not realised that Amendment No. 64 was in this group, but I suspect that I would not have spoken until I heard the noble Earl in any case. I cannot think that any Member of the Committee objects to the objective here. It is
prima facieprima facie1473Lord Christopher
1474: Earlier in the proceedings of the Committee, I raised a question about codifying the various forms of conflict of interest that are peppered throughout the Bill. The point just made by the noble Lord, Lord Christopher, illustrates again the need for us to be very clear about that. I support strongly the remarks made by the noble Earl.1474Lord Alton of Liverpool
147714761475: We have had a very wide-ranging debate, not least on the nature of the conflict of interest. There have been many examples of what might constitute a conflict of interest, for which I am very grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken.147714761475Baroness Andrews
: I referred to the letter that the Minister wrote to me.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
1478: I beg the noble Lord's pardon. However, my answer still stands, I am afraid. We feel
1478Baroness Andrews
"those who know a person best".: Since making my remarks, I have received a copy of the letter the Minister wrote to the noble Baroness, Lady Pitkeathley. It makes the point that the statutory obligation will be to consult,
"those who know a person best".Lord Pearson of Rannoch
1479"prefer appointing as deputy a person who, otherwise than in a professional capacity or for remuneration": That is a helpful point. I do not think that that is an unusual situation. Highly dependent people in residential care homes develop very close relationships with their carers. Sometimes there are issues, such as when families feel excluded or the practice is not good. There is an art to managing these relationships in the interest of the person involved.1479"prefer appointing as deputy a person who, otherwise than in a professional capacity or for remuneration"Baroness Andrews
: I will accept what the Minister said, provided that the Minister accepts that in the case of families of people with lifelong severe learning disabilities, there may be the odd bad apple among the families. But on the whole, the majority know the person best. They have looked after them very often with great effort for a long time. As long as that is on the record, I accept all the other things that she said, because the Bill covers many categories of people.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
Hansard: I would not disagree with what the noble Lord said.HansardBaroness Andrews
1480Hansard: I thank the Minister for her full response and her explanation about our Amendment No. 63. It points up that this is a rather different Bill and that there are different ways of expressing things on these subjects than has previously been the case. The Minister said a considerable amount in response to Amendment No. 65. I will go away and study 1480HansardBaroness Barker
: I am not sure whether I should declare an interest—perhaps I should, as I am a patron of four livings. It was my belief that when a patron was unwilling or unable to make an appointment, the duty fell automatically on the diocesan bishop, failing whom it fell to the Archbishop of Canterbury, failing whom it fell to the Prime Minister. I was unaware that the Lord Chancellor had a role in that process and, regardless of the current legal position, I am entirely in sympathy with the amendment that the noble Baroness proposes. It makes eminent sense.Earl Howe
1481: Apparently, since the 14th century, the Lord Chancellor has exercised patronage in relation to a number of parishes. The noble Earl may be acting, as I am sure that he always
1481Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Before the Minister reaches a conclusion on the matter and the whole business comes back to us, could we have some knowledge of the views of the bishops on this matter? If, for instance, they are not very anxious to take on this responsibility, could we at least know about it? It is a change and, when the matter is considered, it is one of the things that we ought to know. What is the view of the bishops themselves on the matter?Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: I suspect that the bishops will speak for themselves, any moment now.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am most grateful to the Minister for allowing me to speak on my own behalf. As the Committee will be aware, the situation is intensely complicated for reasons of history, and so on. I know that very careful consideration has been given by the Church of England in conjunction with the Department for Constitutional Affairs and others as to how the schedule may resolve, in the light of much bigger issues. We are content at the moment that those conversations should go ahead, recognising all the anomalies that some have referred to, and recognising the importance of patronage.The Lord Bishop of St Albans
petit fonctionnaire1482: It has been said, "Put not your trust in princes". You might vary that and say, "Put not your trust in Prelates". This is in one sense a very confined and technical argument; in another sense, it is not, because it is connected with the whole future of the parson's freehold, which is one of the great bastions of liberty left in this country.petit fonctionnaire1482Lord St John of Fawsley
: Will the noble Lord give way?Lord Carter
: To the noble Lord, of course; I could think of nothing more delightful except giving way to the noble Baroness whose countenance is now so evasive.Lord St John of Fawsley
Companion: I just wondered whether the noble Lord was aware of the sentence in the CompanionLord Carter
: I have a rather broader view than the noble Lord and can see the relevance very clearly. It is a question of liberty. Because it is a general question of liberty, it is relevant to this issue. We must be broad case and not lower case. Let us look at the broad print. Anyhow, I will not speak for very long. I just wanted to make that point. I hope that it will be noticed in the Synod—which is one of the afflictions with which the right reverend Prelates have to deal—that there is a very strong body of opinion in this House and elsewhere that wants the parson's freehold to be preserved and would regard any inroad into that as a major attack and assault on the liberty and freedom of the Church.Lord St John of Fawsley
1483: This is delicate ground, and far be it from me to adjudicate between the noble Lord, Lord St John of Fawsley, and the noble Lord, Lord Carter. The House will make its own decisions. I observe, first, that I do not think that we should simply sit down under his description of the Synod because people might say that we agreed with him were we to do so. I will not say any more about that either.1483The Lord Bishop of Winchester
I think that the right reverend Prelate has made a most important point, the beneficial side effect of which was to justify my intervention against the imprudent attempt to silence me by the noble Lord, Lord Carter. The noble Lord has held many offices. I wonder whether he has ever been Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. Well, I have.Lord St John of Fawsley
: If it will help the noble Lord, I have been Captain of the Honourable Corps of the Gentlemen-at-Arms.Lord Carter
: That is one of the greatest dignified parts of the constitution, but the position of Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster is part of the efficient parts of the constitution by which we rule and govern.Lord St John of Fawsley
1484: The purpose of this amendment is to deal with what we have been dealing with today and throughout the course of this Bill; namely, the issue of capacity and what we should do to retain the theme of the Bill regarding best interest while addressing a very specialised point concerning individuals who might lose capacity, and therefore the relationship between the duties and responsibilities they have and those on the receiving end of those duties and responsibilities.1484Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Let me assure the Minister before she sits down that, of course, I accept the bona fides of her intentions; I have never doubted them for a moment. She is one of the most honourable Members of this House. She has taken an extraordinarily active and constructive part in these debates. She has taken immense trouble. She must have spent hours studying the matter, and I fully appreciate it. I merely thank her very much and say to her, "God bless you", by which in this context I mean, "God help you".Lord St John of Fawsley
"It is possible to speak in this House on a subject about which you know nothing, but, personally I would not do it".: I told the Committee this was the best amendment in the whole Bill and so it has proved."It is possible to speak in this House on a subject about which you know nothing, but, personally I would not do it".Baroness Barker
"either in a family court or in the Court of Protection"."The Children Act 1989 applies to all children up to the age of 18, whilst the Mental Capacity Bill applies to people aged 16 and above who lack capacity. There is thus some overlap between the two",: In essence, the clause seeks to deal with issues relating to people aged between 16 and 18. When the Bill was debated in another place, my honourable friend Paul Burstow asked the Minister how the Children Act would interrelate with the Bill in relation to those young people. My honourable friend received an interesting and helpful letter from David Lammy on 31 October 2004, which was circulated to other parties in another place. Mr Lammy helpfully stated:
"either in a family court or in the Court of Protection"."The Children Act 1989 applies to all children up to the age of 18, whilst the Mental Capacity Bill applies to people aged 16 and above who lack capacity. There is thus some overlap between the two",Baroness Barker
1486: I am grateful to the noble Baroness. I was not specifically anticipating that point, although it is important. The noble Baroness is right—the intention behind this provision is that the Lord Chancellor, through order-making powers, should be able to determine the circumstances that would be specified in the order concerning how a young person would best be dealt with.1486Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness.Baroness Barker
"it is not valid if it is formally witnessed by a person who has a material interest in the consequences of the withholding or withdrawal of the treatment"."A number of other procedural safeguards may also be appropriate, for example a requirement that a witness to an advance directive not be a person who stands to gain from the person's death, or employed at the relevant health care establishment which is caring for the person"."A withdrawal (including a partial withdrawal) need not be in writing".1488"The Government is seriously considering this recommendation and how best we can ensure that advance decisions are made with full understanding of their consequences and free from coercion. However, there is a risk that a formal process for making an advance decision would require a formal process for revoking the decision, thus discouraging people (or making it very difficult for them) from making clear that that they have changed their decision"."An exception might, however, be made where the decision was taken during ongoing medical treatment in which case it should be recorded by the doctor in charge of the treatment in the patients notes and independently witnessed"."In most circumstances we believe that it would be reasonable for the Bill to require that advance decisions to refuse treatment should be recorded in writing and witnessed by two independent persons having no financial interest in that person's estate".: I tabled Amendment No. 86 as an amendment to the government amendment, to ask my noble friend why, in partially accepting the recommendation of the Joint Committee, she has not gone all the way. I remind her that the recommendation was:
"it is not valid if it is formally witnessed by a person who has a material interest in the consequences of the withholding or withdrawal of the treatment"."A number of other procedural safeguards may also be appropriate, for example a requirement that a witness to an advance directive not be a person who stands to gain from the person's death, or employed at the relevant health care establishment which is caring for the person"."A withdrawal (including a partial withdrawal) need not be in writing".1488"The Government is seriously considering this recommendation and how best we can ensure that advance decisions are made with full understanding of their consequences and free from coercion. However, there is a risk that a formal process for making an advance decision would require a formal process for revoking the decision, thus discouraging people (or making it very difficult for them) from making clear that that they have changed their decision"."An exception might, however, be made where the decision was taken during ongoing medical treatment in which case it should be recorded by the doctor in charge of the treatment in the patients notes and independently witnessed"."In most circumstances we believe that it would be reasonable for the Bill to require that advance decisions to refuse treatment should be recorded in writing and witnessed by two independent persons having no financial interest in that person's estate".Lord Carter
1489: My name is added to Amendment No. 87 in this group. It is designed to ensure that a rash or uninformed statement made 20 years ago cannot today create circumstances which could result in life-saving treatment being withdrawn and possibly death. Many people make verbal statements to the effect of, "I wouldn't want to live if that happened to me", or even a glib statement such as, "If that happens to me, flick the switch!".1489Baroness Chapman
1490: I shall speak briefly to Amendments Nos. 84 and 91, which stand in my name. First, I am quite content to defer to the amendment in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Carter, on the question of conflict of interest. The case that he made is very persuasive and I shall not dig my heels in on the terms of my amendment, which nevertheless was designed to achieve substantially the same end.1490Earl Howe
: Before my noble friend sits down, in addition to the excellent points that have been made, would he include a situation in which, due to the distance of time since the original request was made—the information on which the person acted may well have been correct at the time—medical advance has happened so fast, as it does, that the decision has been overtaken by events? I believe that can and could happen.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: I entirely agree with my noble friend, but the Bill caters for that precise set of circumstances. When there have been medical advances and there has been quite a distance of time between the creation of the advance decision and the time when it comes to be put into effect, as the Bill is worded, the doctor is allowed to take that into account and he may safely treat, if he is in any doubt about the applicability of the advance decision. When the Minister replies I believe that we shall find that the concern of my noble friend has already been addressed, although I completely agree with her that if it has not been, we need to focus on it.Earl Howe
14951494Official Report, 25/1/05; col. 1182"If an advance decision read, 'I wish to kill myself', that is not an advance decision. An advance decision is a refusal of certain treatment. It has to be treatment-specific and circumstance-specific".[Official Report, 25/1/05; col. 1182"We believe an amendment [such as this] is needed to send a clear signal that the Bill does not give validity to expressly suicidal advance decisions, and have proposed an amendment that we believe would not overburden doctors in these difficult cases".1493"The continuing validity of the advance directive must be clearly established by convincing and inherently reliable evidence".W Healthcare NHS Trust and KH and Others"does not incur liability for carrying out or continuing the treatment unless, at the time, he is satisfied that an advance decision exists which is valid and applicable to the treatment".1492"An advance decision is not applicable to life-sustaining treatment unless—(a) the decision is verified by a statement by P [the person] to the effect that it is to apply to that treatment even if life is at risk"."a decision may be regarded as specifying a treatment or circumstances even though expressed in layman's terms".""Life-sustaining treatment' means treatment which in the view of a person providing health care for the person concerned is"— I emphasise the next few words— "necessary to sustain his life".1491: I wish to speak to the government amendments and to my Amendments Nos. 85A and 89. This is an important group of amendments because
14951494Official Report, 25/1/05; col. 1182"If an advance decision read, 'I wish to kill myself', that is not an advance decision. An advance decision is a refusal of certain treatment. It has to be treatment-specific and circumstance-specific".[Official Report, 25/1/05; col. 1182"We believe an amendment [such as this] is needed to send a clear signal that the Bill does not give validity to expressly suicidal advance decisions, and have proposed an amendment that we believe would not overburden doctors in these difficult cases".1493"The continuing validity of the advance directive must be clearly established by convincing and inherently reliable evidence".W Healthcare NHS Trust and KH and Others"does not incur liability for carrying out or continuing the treatment unless, at the time, he is satisfied that an advance decision exists which is valid and applicable to the treatment".1492"An advance decision is not applicable to life-sustaining treatment unless—(a) the decision is verified by a statement by P [the person] to the effect that it is to apply to that treatment even if life is at risk"."a decision may be regarded as specifying a treatment or circumstances even though expressed in layman's terms".""Life-sustaining treatment' means treatment which in the view of a person providing health care for the person concerned is"— I emphasise the next few words— "necessary to sustain his life".1491Lord Brennan
Once the threshold is crossed, assisted dying will indeed come to resemble a veterinary system, with comparable criteria for assessment of the value of human life. Convenience and cost will feature prominently in the calculation".How quickly would society discount life's final stages, as it has done since the Abortion Act of 1968 in respect of life before birth?1500"How much protection would there be in practice for an elderly, frightened and isolated patient in an anonymous nursing home, under pressure from relatives to put an end to the rapid drain on the family inheritance? How much pressure would there be upon doctors, conscious of scarce resources, to clear beds in hospitals?Times"Advance directives should be time-limited to guard against the danger of directives being overtaken by developments in treatment and medicine or being forgotten about by a person who would have revoked it had they remembered its existence"."if it is expressly motivated by a desire to be assisted to bring about P's death".1499"do not create greater choice, they actually limit choice. The potential for abuse of this kind of document is enormous—there is no protection from the pressure an individual may feel from others to opt out of receiving life saving treatment, and there is no safeguard in place if such a person has a change of heart once they are no longer able to communicate such a decision. Discussions about Advance Decisions are not possible until we are part of a society that supports and celebrates diversity and where treatment decisions are made without reference to","Advance Decisions, which are already operational in a few hospitals"—"The MCB will create an environment in which older and disabled people (with capacity) are placed in an impossible situation at an impossible time with a risk of undue pressure placed on them to sign away any future right to decision-making by the completion of a legally binding Advance Decision document, whilst those people deemed 'incapacitated' are unlikely to ever experience the luxury of having such a choice."The MCB will make such instruments legally binding, which for anyone deemed 'incapable', whether through impairment or through temporary sedation (in hospital) has worrying implications. One of the strongest messages that comes from our society today is that if you are disabled person, or a sick person or an older person, you can no longer have control over your own life and that our lives are not worthy of living. This is particularly the case for disabled people, sick people and older people who require assistance to look after themselves."It is not clear to us why advance directives should not carry the additional safeguard that they should be required to be in writing. Second, the classification of ANH as "treatment" may not be well known to laypeople"."There is no safeguard on the MCB (though the Code attempts to address the difficulties) for ensuring that advance decisions are properly scrutinised and true effect is given to the then competent patient's wishes".1498"and the patient's current wishes and feelings. An advance statement cannot bind a medical practitioner to do anything illegal or unethical. An advance directive is a document which specifically refuses particular treatments or categories of treatment. Such documents are potentially binding. When the medical practitioner contemplates overriding such a directive, appropriate guidance should be sought"."its relevance to the patient's current healthcare needs, medical progress since the time it was made"—"A competently made advance statement made orally or in writing to a medical practitioner, solicitor or other professional person would be a strong indication of a patient's past wishes about medical treatment but should not be viewed in isolation from the surrounding circumstances. The status of an advance statement should be judged in the light of the age of the statement"—1497"We have examined carefully a number of other proposals made by the Scottish Law commission, by the Alliance for the Promotion of the Incapable Adults Bill, and by others. Such proposals have included legislation to give clear legal force to Advance statements ("Living Wills") and to provide for the withholding or withdrawal of treatment from patients who may be in … PVS. Although such proposals have the sincere support of particular interest groups, we do not consider that they command
1497"must be clearly established by convincing and inherently reliable evidence"."Where, as here, life is at stake, the evidence must be scrutinised with a special care. The continuing validity of the advance directive"—HE v A Hospital NHS Trust [2003]"judges have to apply the law as they find it. English law, as it stands at present, places a very heavy burden on those who are advocating a course which would lead inevitably to the cessation of a human life. In my judgment, it is impossible for this court to interfere with the judge's judgment".1496"in my judgment the law has not yet reached the stage where their arguments"—"The Court cannot in effect sanction the death by starvation of a patient who is not in a PVS state other than with their clear and informed consent or where their condition is so intolerable as to be beyond doubt"."I cannot say that life-prolonging treatment (in this case feeding via the PEG) would provide no benefit".W Healthcare Trust v KH and others: With his usual forensic skills, the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, in the amendments that he has laid before the Committee, has taken us back to some of the crucial life and death decisions about which we are legislating.Once the threshold is crossed, assisted dying will indeed come to resemble a veterinary system, with comparable criteria for assessment of the value of human life. Convenience and cost will feature prominently in the calculation".How quickly would society discount life's final stages, as it has done since the Abortion Act of 1968 in respect of life before birth?1500"How much protection would there be in practice for an elderly, frightened and isolated patient in an anonymous nursing home, under pressure from relatives to put an end to the rapid drain on the family inheritance? How much pressure would there be upon doctors, conscious of scarce resources, to clear beds in hospitals?Times"Advance directives should be time-limited to guard against the danger of directives being overtaken by developments in treatment and medicine or being forgotten about by a person who would have revoked it had they remembered its existence"."if it is expressly motivated by a desire to be assisted to bring about P's death".1499"do not create greater choice, they actually limit choice. The potential for abuse of this kind of document is enormous—there is no protection from the pressure an individual may feel from others to opt out of receiving life saving treatment, and there is no safeguard in place if such a person has a change of heart once they are no longer able to communicate such a decision. Discussions about Advance Decisions are not possible until we are part of a society that supports and celebrates diversity and where treatment decisions are made without reference to","Advance Decisions, which are already operational in a few hospitals"—"The MCB will create an environment in which older and disabled people (with capacity) are placed in an impossible situation at an impossible time with a risk of undue pressure placed on them to sign away any future right to decision-making by the completion of a legally binding Advance Decision document, whilst those people deemed 'incapacitated' are unlikely to ever experience the luxury of having such a choice."The MCB will make such instruments legally binding, which for anyone deemed 'incapable', whether through impairment or through temporary sedation (in hospital) has worrying implications. One of the strongest messages that comes from our society today is that if you are disabled person, or a sick person or an older person, you can no longer have control over your own life and that our lives are not worthy of living. This is particularly the case for disabled people, sick people and older people who require assistance to look after themselves."It is not clear to us why advance directives should not carry the additional safeguard that they should be required to be in writing. Second, the classification of ANH as "treatment" may not be well known to laypeople"."There is no safeguard on the MCB (though the Code attempts to address the difficulties) for ensuring that advance decisions are properly scrutinised and true effect is given to the then competent patient's wishes".1498"and the patient's current wishes and feelings. An advance statement cannot bind a medical practitioner to do anything illegal or unethical. An advance directive is a document which specifically refuses particular treatments or categories of treatment. Such documents are potentially binding. When the medical practitioner contemplates overriding such a directive, appropriate guidance should be sought"."its relevance to the patient's current healthcare needs, medical progress since the time it was made"—"A competently made advance statement made orally or in writing to a medical practitioner, solicitor or other professional person would be a strong indication of a patient's past wishes about medical treatment but should not be viewed in isolation from the surrounding circumstances. The status of an advance statement should be judged in the light of the age of the statement"—1497"We have examined carefully a number of other proposals made by the Scottish Law commission, by the Alliance for the Promotion of the Incapable Adults Bill, and by others. Such proposals have included legislation to give clear legal force to Advance statements ("Living Wills") and to provide for the withholding or withdrawal of treatment from patients who may be in … PVS. Although such proposals have the sincere support of particular interest groups, we do not consider that they command
1497"must be clearly established by convincing and inherently reliable evidence"."Where, as here, life is at stake, the evidence must be scrutinised with a special care. The continuing validity of the advance directive"—HE v A Hospital NHS Trust [2003]"judges have to apply the law as they find it. English law, as it stands at present, places a very heavy burden on those who are advocating a course which would lead inevitably to the cessation of a human life. In my judgment, it is impossible for this court to interfere with the judge's judgment".1496"in my judgment the law has not yet reached the stage where their arguments"—"The Court cannot in effect sanction the death by starvation of a patient who is not in a PVS state other than with their clear and informed consent or where their condition is so intolerable as to be beyond doubt"."I cannot say that life-prolonging treatment (in this case feeding via the PEG) would provide no benefit".W Healthcare Trust v KH and othersLord Alton of Liverpool
: I shall be extremely brief, but the noble Lord, Lord Alton, picked up a point made by the noble and right reverend Lord, Lord Habgood, and the noble Lord, Lord Walton, about this business of advance decisions being advisory. There has been an argument that they should be excluded from the Bill altogether. We considered this important matter in the Joint Committee. We considered that if advance decisions were not to have statutory force, it would leave in place the common law provisions which have made valid and applicable refusals effective, but the proposed powers of donees, deputies and the Court of Protection in the Bill to make healthcare decisions would have no common law equivalent. That is the strongest argument about them being given legal force.Lord Carter
: I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Carter. I have followed that argument and I agree with him that it looks as though the Government are determined to go in this direction anyway. I understand the reasons for that, and there are arguments on both sides. However, if that is to be the case, does he not accept that Amendments Nos. 85A and 87 would therefore be a useful contribution to addressing at least some of the concerns that noble Lords such as the noble and right reverend Lord, Lord Habgood, raised?Lord Alton of Liverpool
"expressly motivated by a desire to be assisted",: I am still puzzled by Amendment No. 85A, which states,
"expressly motivated by a desire to be assisted",Lord Carter
15021501: Slightly contrary to the tone of what has gone before, I thank the Government
15021501Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: I agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Finlay—the Government have taken an enormously important step by their insistence that advance directives are situation specific. They are not about assisted suicide. I am not a doctor or a lawyer but I have worked on end-of-life decisions for older people for a long time. At one time I had the enormous privilege of working on those decisions with the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of St Albans. That was a great privilege. We have discussed these issues at great length together.Baroness Greengross
1503: I have added my name to two amendments in this group. However, all the amendments are very important. This debate, if it has done anything, has shown the Committee how complex the whole subject is. We are discussing life and death decisions. The noble Lord, Lord Brennan, is a lawyer. It is important that we are clear, as it is the law that will interpret it on the ground, that those people who want to live will be able to live, and that there will not be a complex muddle on the ground. I believe that is what the people outside are now looking to the House of Lords to sort out. I hope that we will be able to do that because it is not completely clear.1503Baroness Masham of Ilton
: I rise briefly to make a small contribution to what has been an enormously helpful debate in total. I do so because my colleague in another place, Paul Burstow, was instrumental, along with Members from all sides in another place, in doing the work that enabled the Government to reach this point. They should be congratulated, as should the Government. They are trying to walk a very fine line and legislation is not always a great means by which to do that, but the amendment is right.Baroness Barker
15051504: My Lords, this has been a very important debate.15051504Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1506: I want to clarify what the noble Baroness said. Surely the point at issue is not whether, at the time that the decision comes to be implemented, the witness has an interest in the estate of the incapacitated person. It is a matter of propriety. Just as we have a law that says that you may not be a witness to a will if you are named
1506Earl Howe
: I apologise for my late arrival at this very important debate. I am celebrating my birthday today, so perhaps am one year nearer having to make an advance decision. What the noble Earl said was correct. The person making the advance decision can ensure—perhaps in writing on the advance decision— that the witnesses are not beneficiaries in any shape or form.Lord Rix
150915081507: I identify two problems with what Members of the Committee have said. The first is that I am not sure that, if I were making an advance decision, I would want the people witnessing it to know whether they would benefit from me at that point. The second problem is that I do not know who the noble Earl thinks will verify the fact. If you make an advance decision in writing in the way in which we have described and have it witnessed, there is no one to verify that fact until the point at which the advance decision will be used. Therefore, there will be no one to say that a person may have a financial interest.150915081507Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: The point I was making from the judgment was precisely that: as it was just a casual remark, it certainly could not be taken as binding on the doctors who were treating the patient. The second point is that the peg was not removed; the peg had come apart accidentally and the ruling was that the peg should be reinserted over and above the wishes of the relatives of the patient on the basis that nutrition and hydration should be continued.Lord Alton of Liverpool
1510"prescribed by regulation made by affirmative resolution of Parliament".: Indeed, in a sense, the noble Lord and I are in agreement about that case. It is absolutely right that the patient should have continued to be treated.1510"prescribed by regulation made by affirmative resolution of Parliament".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, the Chancellor of the Exchequer regularly meets Jean-Claude Juncker at ECOFIN meetings in Luxembourg and Brussels. Officials also have bilateral discussions with Luxembourg, as with all member states, and this is the case with all presidencies.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
2: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that brief reply. There are two thorny questions among many facing the Luxembourg presidency: first, the elaboration of the policy reforms under the Wim Kok phase 2 Lisbon agenda; and secondly, getting effective financial
2Lord Dykes
: My Lords, I knew that I needed my noble friend Lord Kinnock to sit beside me for this Answer, but I will do my best in his absence. First, the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, asked me about the Lisbon agenda for the competitive and dynamic economy. As he knows, Wim Kok produced his midterm review in November last year, and I understand that the outcome of the review will be discussed at the spring ECOFIN council. We hope for a relaunch of the 10-year programme. The noble Lord's second question was about finances. He will be aware that the UK Government wish to retain the budget at 1 per cent of GDP, which is a 6.5 per cent increase and is certainly enough for the incorporation of the 10 accession states.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, would it be fair to say that the British Government are planning on future expenditures under the ceiling of 1.00 per cent of European incomes, whereas many of the Commission documents are predicated on perhaps a 1.14 per cent ceiling? The longer this goes on, the more difficult it will be to draw up sensible plans on overseas development and other matters. The sooner this future perspective is agreed, the better.Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords. I entirely agree, but my noble friend will know that five other member states have written in support of our view that the budget should be restricted to 1 per cent. I know that the Luxembourg presidency is looking for a resolution of this issue by June. Failing that, we will pursue the matter vigorously during our subsequent presidency.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
3: My Lords, the Minister will be aware that the European Court of Justice will today
3Baroness Noakes
: No, my Lords, we will not move to remove the European Court of Justice from its statutory responsibilities; and nor would the Opposition expect us to. Of course, we take its views seriously, but some of the objections that have been raised on tax matters before the European Court of Justice are extremely self-interested.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, creationism is not part of the national curriculum for science. In the programme of study for 14 to 16 year-olds, pupils learn about evolution and how variation and selection may lead to evolution and extinction. They also consider different theories on the origin of the universe. In all aspects of the national curriculum, we encourage pupils to consider different ideas and beliefs and how scientific controversies can arise from different ways of interpreting evidence.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
: My Lords, as the Government are in favour of allowing choice between sense and nonsense, will they also allow children to be taught that the earth is flat, and that the sun goes round the earth? Since there is a crisis in maths teaching in schools, and some university chemistry departments are closing down, will the Government offer as an alternative the teaching of astrology and alchemy? It is extraordinary that a Government and a Prime Minister who say that they are in favour of science have allowed the introduction into our schools of the worst features of American fundamentalist, anti-science, pseudo-science nonsense. Is this not disgraceful?Lord Taverne
4: My Lords, I apologise to the House for not having spoken clearly enough, because the noble Lord, Lord Taverne, could not have heard my response, in which it was explicitly clear that creationism is not part of the national curriculum. We are clear and we are proud that pupils should be taught to look at argumentation and evidence and come to conclusions as a product of rational debate based on evidence. That is the core of scientific inquiry, and it is the core of a proper process of education. As to his two or three other questions, we are making substantial progress on
4Lord Filkin
: My Lords, is it not the case that a better understanding of the place of myth and story in religion needs promotion in the curriculum? A critical understanding of the first two chapters of Genesis, with their two stories of the creation of the world, might undermine the literalism that so worries my noble friend Lord Taverne.The Lord Bishop of Norwich
: My Lords, I strongly agree with the right reverend Prelate for two reasons: first, it always pays to agree with the Bishops' Bench; and, secondly, it seems absolutely to capture the position of most people in Britain, whether they have faith or not. Not having a literal belief in Genesis does not deny the existence of God.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware that creationism is being taught in our schools? Is he further aware that creationists insist on Biblical texts being taken literally? A child I know who, having seen the film "The Day After Tomorrow" asked if it could happen here, was told by his teacher that God had promised that there would never be another flood. If that seems a small matter, does my noble friend agree that it would not be a small matter if the text in question was that from Leviticus that insists on homosexuality as a sin punishable by death?Baroness Rendell of Babergh
: My Lords, this is one of those Questions that Ministers fear, because they can lead in almost any direction imaginable. We are not aware that creationism is being taught in schools. One of the clearest allegations—I think that it was in 2002—was that one of the Vardy CTCs was so doing. When that was investigated by the former chief inspector of education, he could find no evidence to support it. The subsequent chief inspector—the issue spanned both of them—was happy to accept the undertaking given that it was not happening. If my noble friend has evidence of what she thinks is inappropriate behaviour, she should let me or Ofsted have it.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there are a large of number of schools attached to the Church of England, and, indeed, that there are Muslim schools? Is he satisfied that they give a balanced view and follow the curriculum of which he spoke?Lord Mackie of Benshie
5: My Lords, there are indeed a large number of Church of England schools and Muslim schools in the maintained sector; there are of course many fewer such Muslim schools. The evidence from Ofsted is that they follow the curriculum. The stance of the previous Secretary of State for Education and Skills was very clearly that religious education or education sponsored by religious faiths was an
5Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I understood my noble friend's Answer to be that, in science courses, there is no possibility that creationism is introduced or taken seriously. I hope that he will confirm that. I then got a bit lost on religious studies. Unless my memory serves me ill, religious studies is part of the national curriculum. Within religious studies, do the teachers say that creationism is a valid view of what happened in the history of the universe, and are the children subsequently examined on that basis? Is that possible within religious studies, rather than the notion that creationism is put forward, if not as part of the Bible, as part of the mythology of a rather primitive tribe that inhabited the Middle East a great many years ago?Lord Peston
: My Lords, the noble Lord was correct in what he had inferred that I said—that creationism is not part of the national curriculum for science. Although it may surprise the House that there is not a formal national curriculum for religious education, a national non-statutory framework was introduced last October and has been well received by a wide variety of religions, and by the British Humanist Association. It is possible for a literal interpretation of the Bible to be taught in religious lessons, but we would expect schools also to put across alternative views, just as they are expected to put across the full range of faith beliefs that exist in our society. I doubt that it would be practical or possible to put creationism across in religious education in our schools in the crude way that he feared.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, will the Minister consider restrictions on the sort of groups permitted to set up academies if they should be found to promote creeds that are simply not compatible with the national curriculum?Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, if schools were not compatible with the national curriculum, or had beliefs or values not consistent with it, they would not be accepted as academies. If they subsequently developed such practices, there are ample powers to prohibit them continuing. However, we know of no such problems.Lord Filkin
6: My Lords, the 2004 Pre-Budget Report showed that, on the basis of cautious assumptions, the Government are meeting the golden rule over the current economic cycle, with a margin of £8 billion including the AME margin. The Government will meet the golden rule in the current
6Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that not unexpected reply. However, I am sure that he is aware that many distinguished economists—"distinguished" may not necessarily be the right word—have forecast that there will be a breach in the golden rule. In the past, they have not been entirely correct in their forecasts; in fact, they have always been wrong. However, on this occasion, they may just be right. Given that GDP in money terms next year is likely to be around £1,300,000 million, will my noble friend accept that, even if there is a modest breach, it would not be essential or appropriate to increase taxation or reduce public expenditure?Lord Barnett
: My Lords, I think that the noble Lord is referring to the most recent forecasts of the Institute of Fiscal Studies and the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. If he is, I am happy to include them among distinguished economists. He is right to say that the record of independent forecasters has not been all that good and certainly has not been better than the Treasury's record. In recent years, the Treasury's forecast differences for net borrowing have tended to be smaller than those of the OECD, the IMF and the European Commission. In so far as those figures for net borrowing are the difference between two very large numbers, there is clearly scope for adjustment at the margin. Certainly I agree that it would not be right to jump into drastic action as the result of very minor changes. That was shown to be the case in 2003.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, we agree that the Chancellor will not breach the golden rule, because we believe that he will raise taxes to ensure that he stays within it. The only question is: what taxes and when? Will the Minister say what and when?Baroness Noakes
: My Lords, the question arises from a premise that is itself false.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that—despite the much heavier investment by the Chancellor in the public sector in recent times—it is unfortunate that we still have the lowest investment ratio of the leading core countries in the European Union, both in the private and public sectors? What steps do the Government intend to take to rectify those problems?Lord Dykes
: My Lords, investment by itself is not an unmitigated good or bad. There are good investments and bad investments. We think that the investment programme that we have adopted—and that has been necessary to remedy the underinvestment by the government whom the noble Lord at the time supported—is necessary and well calculated to achieve its results.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
7: My Lords, does the Minister accept that there are a significant number of controversies
7Lord Newby
: My Lords, the last time that the noble Lord asked me that question—it was fairly recently—I replied that the basis of calculation of the golden rule had been confirmed by the Treasury Committee, which is not particularly known for slavish adherence to Treasury terminology. I hold to that answer.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, bearing in mind how very difficult it is to forecast GDP, and therefore how very difficult it is to forecast tax revenues—outturns when it comes to public expenditure are again rather tricky, even when you are trying to control them—it must be at least theoretically possible that the golden rule could be broken. However, I am not one of the distinguished economists and I do not expect it to be broken, which shows my lack of distinction. Therefore, there must at least be something resembling a contingency plan in the Treasury because, in my experience, the Treasury is on the whole very sensible and would consider all sorts of scenarios, including what to do if things do not go quite the right way. Should the added answer to the Question be that at least something called a contingency plan exists?Lord Peston
: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Peston does not need to fish for compliments. I would have called him a distinguished economist whether or not he gave me the opportunity. Of course he is right to say that the Treasury has contingency plans for a wide range of possibilities and probabilities.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
8: My Lords, the Foreign Office has made available a package of assistance to bereaved families, including return flights to the affected region, accommodation and, where appropriate, meeting the costs of repatriating victims. Police family liaison officers have been appointed to the families of all British nationals
8The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, although I acknowledge that the Minister's reply is very acceptable, does she recognise that the relatives of the deceased are in a particularly vulnerable position? The noble Baroness, Lady Crawley, said that an announcement on the matter was likely to be made in a few days. When will the Government say that relatives should not have to wait for seven years? The sooner that the Government are prepared to say that, the better it will be.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, I could not agree more. That is why, realising how much family concern was generated over the issue, the Government made the announcement on death certificates on 25 January. In response to the exceptional circumstances, the Government have agreed that where a body has not yet been recovered or identified, we shall register the death overseas and issue a certified copy of the register entry. That will be done at the request of the family and based on police advice, following their inquiries. It will be free of charge. Family liaison officers have been or are getting in touch with all the families of missing people to explain that process to them.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, will the noble Baroness bear in mind that the Foreign Office has a primary duty towards the British people who have suffered through the tsunami and that more British people will have gone to Sri Lanka and been caught there than in all the other places put together?Lord Renton
: My Lords, the major problem for our embassy officials has arisen in Thailand, where there were so many British holidaymakers. The first team of staff from the British embassy in Bangkok left for the worst affected area, Phuket, on the day of the disaster, 26 December. They had to travel by car because the airport was not functioning. Between 26 December and 24 January, the Foreign Office sent 105 extra staff to Thailand. As of the end of last week, 51 of those staff remained in Thailand. Regarding Sri Lanka, a rapid deployment team of 10 FCO staff was sent from London to Colombo. That figure has now been reduced to one staff member remaining in Sri Lanka. However, one should remember that there are 80 British police officers helping to identify the bodies that remain in question.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
9: My Lords, we very much welcome what the Government have done so far, but is there not a case for going somewhat further? When the person who has died has been the main earner of the family, for instance, the family may need immediate access to savings and bank accounts in that person's name and so on. That is extremely difficult to achieve. Can the Government provide some help to people in that position? Does the problem which has arisen regarding death certificates in this case not indicate that, in due course, we should look more generally at relaxation of
9Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, this really is a very difficult question. We must remember that this is the worst natural disaster in living memory. The problem is that the numbers of those who are missing and thought to have been involved, and those who are missing and may have been involved, are constantly moving. For example, as of today, 228 individuals are in the category of "missing and highly likely to be involved". Last week that figure was 251. When my right honourable friend the Prime Minister made the original Statement, on 10 January, it was 453.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I declare an interest as a member of the Metropolitan Police Authority. My noble friend has referred several times to the work of the family liaison officers provided by the police, who also provide forensic experts and work in the casualty bureaux. Can she confirm that the police services involved will be reimbursed from central funds for their extra costs?Lord Harris of Haringey
: My Lords, I am not in a position to give your Lordships an assurance on that. I was talking to officials in the Foreign Office only today about the costs of the operation. Of course all assistance must be given in the way that I have indicated to your Lordships, and there is an extensive package in relation to the individuals who are directly concerned. However, the question of accounting as between a government department and the police is still under consideration. If I may, I should like to pay a warm tribute to the police family liaison officers who have been involved. They have done an absolutely extraordinary job—a first-rate job—in keeping very distressed people in touch with what is happening. I shall try to give the noble Lord a specific answer to his question as soon as I am able.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, what are the Government doing to help to speed up the progress of post-mortems of tsunami victims?Lord Astor of Hever
10: My Lords, the real problem is not so much the question of postmortems but the question of identifying people. That is the major area of distress for people at the moment. It is difficult to identify bodies reliably when they have been dead for some time. Sadly, that is particularly so when the cause of death is drowning. It is not my
10Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, can the Minister say whether there are any estimates of the number of British children who have lost one or both parents as a result of the tsunami? Can she give further information on how these children's needs are being met?The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, I cannot give that information simply because, as I indicated a moment or two ago, the number of people who are missing but are likely to be involved is still changing week on week. There has been a significant change in the number in that category. Last week, it was some 251, and this week it is 228. The figure of 228 takes into account 54 individuals who we know are confirmed dead. However, another 241 individuals are possibly involved, and that is in addition to the figure of 228.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, can the Minister say whether the definition of "British citizen" includes citizens of Commonwealth or other countries who are either naturalised or registered as British citizens and play a full part as such? Is any information available on that category of people, and what is being done to pass information to their families in languages with which they may be more familiar?Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, the categorisation for British citizen is the one that we normally use. I am not dealing here with any figures that may come, for example, from our overseas territories. When we deploy the family liaison services of the police, it is very important that individuals are dealt with in a language that they understand. That, too, is very well recognised.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
4140"does not include the substantive measures for improving the regulation of mainstream bus services".: My Lords, I very much welcome the Bill. I think it is well past the time for a review of school transport. As my noble friend Lord Filkin said, the three-mile limit for free transport is much too rigid—if you live 10 yards outside it, you get free transport, but if you live 10 yards inside it, you do not. How many children these days walk three miles? Three hundred yards is difficult for some of them.4140"does not include the substantive measures for improving the regulation of mainstream bus services".Lord Berkeley
: My Lords, I am an honorary Air Commodore. Does the Minister accept that the crews trained at Royal Air Force Lyneham are among the very best and most highly trained in the world? Our deepest sympathies go to the families and friends of all those involved. We very much hope that it will be possible in the hours, days and weeks ahead to establish the causes of this tragic episode.Lord Selkirk of Douglas
61: My Lords, if the world in Northern Ireland were as we would like it to be, we would not need the measure and everything would be fine. Unfortunately, the noble Lord, Lord Smith, talks as if the world were as he would like it to be, rather than as it is. Sadly, the measure is a necessity. It reflects the reality
61Lord Dubs
767574: My Lords, I want to say something about what the noble Lord, Lord Fitt, has said but, before I do so, I want to say something a little more optimistic.767574Lord Dubs
42: My Lords, I support the broad principles behind the Bill for the reasons that the Minister outlined with his usual eloquence and clarity. He made no direct mention of disabled children and those with special educational needs.42Lord Rix
: My Lords, with the leave of the House, later this afternoon a Statement on Iraq will be repeated by my noble friend Lady Symons. With agreement, it has been decided that that will come after the three opening speeches on the School Transport Bill—that is, after the speech by the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley.Lord Grocott
32: My Lords, would my noble friend care to comment on the attitude of George
32Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, perhaps I may press my noble friend on the question asked by the noble Lord, Lord Wallace of Saltaire. Will the British Government resist at every stage proposals from people within Iraq for the stationing of permanent military forces in either Iraq or separately in Kurdistan? Would not the stationing of troops in Kurdistan in particular raise all kinds of problems in the Middle East which people, particularly in Iraq, are not taking into account?Lord Campbell-Savours
565554535251: My Lords, more in sorrow than in anger, I shall respond to some of the issues raised. I am grateful to noble Lords who have, I suppose. set out so clearly some of their interests and concerns. I am particularly grateful to the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Southwark, who took a thoughtful and reasoned stance which he thought it important to mark. But he had the grace, as you would expect, to recognise that the status quo was pretty indefensible. We are not describing a good situation and that is where I have been—shocked would be too strong a word—very surprised indeed by the tone of some of the debate.
565554535251Lord Filkin
(Lord Filkin.)1514Travelling to School: an action plan.Children on the move—accessing excellence.13: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.(Lord Filkin.)1514Travelling to School: an action plan.Children on the move—accessing excellence.13Lord Filkin
27: My Lords, I am sure that all your Lordships are extremely grateful to the Minister for repeating this lengthy and very important Statement. I have not seen a copy in advance, but what I hear from her is immensely encouraging. Perhaps I may add straightaway that, in relation to the Hercules disaster, we on this side join Ministers in sending our deepest sympathies and condolences to those who have been bereaved on an otherwise happier day. That is a great sadness. I shall return to that incident in a moment.27Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, as an opponent of the war in the first place, as the noble Baroness knows, I welcome the elections that occurred yesterday in Iraq and the election results. Indeed, the high turnout puts this country to shame. I hope that the 59 per cent turnout of voters in this country will be improved at the next election, perhaps reaching the Iraqi level.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
34: My Lords, I echo the expressions of sympathy and admiration already made from the Front Benches. I welcome the tone and style with which the Minister has answered the questions put to her.34Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, I do not want to waste the time of the House but I think we are moving into difficult territory here when we talk about sending such things to a Grand Committee because, in fact, Grand Committee rules will not apply, particularly to the one where the time is being limited to an hour and a half. It is axiomatic in your Lordships' House that the Committee stage of a Bill, whether it takes place here or in Grand Committee, is open-ended and people can speak as often as they like and table amendments. I feel that the use of the phrase "to a Grand Committee" is not right. If we were to say that it should be taken "off the Floor of the House" or "in the Moses Room", or something along those lines, that might make more sense.Lord Tordoff
: My Lords, can the Minister tell us a little about American intentions as regards making up its forces? A distinguished American general, when interviewed on the box the other night, said that double the number were needed. The question of security is all important if the newly elected members of the temporary government are to form a constitution. Apparently we have put more troops in even though our areas are under control. However, the Baghdad area is out of control. Will the Americans put more troops on the ground, and are we urging them to do so?Lord Mackie of Benshie
the Daily MailNews Letter,: My Lords, there have been many past occasions when I have disagreed with the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Clifton. Reading the order, I did not know what line to take on it. I take my line from my understanding of the question of funding from outside sources in Northern Ireland. I recall the debates that took place in this House, which had serious content, when I warned that the people who would gain most from being allowed to take outside subscriptions would be Sinn Fein and the IRA. Certainly, Fianna Fail, Fine Gael—to some extent—and the SDLP receive some funding from America, but it is minuscule compared with the funding that the IRA receives.the Daily MailNews Letter,Lord Fitt
7372: My Lords, I listened carefully to what was said by the noble Baroness the Leader of the House. Once again I have heard the repeated mantra: there can be no place for a political party in Northern Ireland which has the support of a paramilitary organisation, and therefore it cannot have any say in the governance of Northern Ireland. I first heard those words in 1970 when the first British soldier was killed not far from where I live. That marked the onset of the present campaign by the IRA.7372Lord Fitt
85"the secretariat did not prove overly supportive when the Ulster Scots Agency was trying to develop its community capacity building initiatives, but seemed happy to take unilateral action in that field at the behest of the Irish".Sunday TimesSunday Times whileBelfast Telegraph.84"IRA haven't gone away you know".83Sunday Independent: My Lords, I am, of course, grateful for the opportunity to speak tonight on the issue of the Government's plans to address the impasse in Northern Ireland's political process. I do, however, feel that this is perhaps an untimely debate since the Government's reaction to the Northern Bank heist has indicated that their plan in Northern Ireland is to carry on regardless. In other words, there is no concrete plan to deal with those who have been blamed for creating this deadlock by this British Government, their security services, their counterparts in the Irish Republic, and the Irish Government themselves.85"the secretariat did not prove overly supportive when the Ulster Scots Agency was trying to develop its community capacity building initiatives, but seemed happy to take unilateral action in that field at the behest of the Irish".Sunday TimesSunday Times whileBelfast Telegraph.84"IRA haven't gone away you know".83Sunday IndependentLord Laird
60: My Lords, I cautiously welcome the introduction of this disapplication of Part IV of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 order 2005. There is no doubt that in the present circumstances some restrictions on the publication of financial donations to political parties in Northern Ireland are necessary. Sadly, should such information be made public at this time, some donors would be likely to suffer intimidation and feel threatened by such exposure. This is the nature of the political situation still facing us in the Province.60Lord Laird
: My Lords, I welcome very strongly this order and the conversion of the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran, in that he now supports it. As we have been told in the debate, all democratic parties in Northern Ireland unanimously support the order. That is more important today than it was two years ago.Lord Kilclooney
888786: My Lords, I wish to declare an interest—I have an account in the Northern Bank in Belfast.888786Lord Steinberg
12: My Lords, perhaps I may ask my noble friend about exactly the same point as was made by the noble Lord, Lord Tordoff. I was puzzled when I first saw the wording and so I spoke to my Clerk. I was assured of precisely what my noble friend has just said—that is, we have to use the expression "sit in a
12Lord Peston
181716: My Lords, I am pleased to be able to speak in this debate from these Benches. As the Minister said, this is a small Bill, but one that could have profound implications for pupils and the education system far beyond the simple provision of school transport.181716Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, when the Lord President of the Council replies, will she be kind enough to say whether the Government considered a delay of one year? Would that not be far more satisfactory from the democratic point of view—and, indeed, from an all-United Kingdom point of view—than a two-year delay?Lord Hylton
(Lord Redesdale.): My Lords, I understand that no amendments have been set down to this Bill and that no noble Lord has indicated a wish to move a manuscript amendment or to speak in Committee. Therefore, unless any noble Lord objects, I beg to move that the order of commitment be discharged.(Lord Redesdale.)Lord Redesdale
: My Lords, we on these Benches also express our deep sorrow at the news of the crash of the RAF plane, and our prayers are with those bereaved and distressed. We also share in the relief that the elections held yesterday have had so positive an outcome. However, there seems to be an irony here. Saddam Hussein was a brutal and evil dictator, yet in his fascist regime there was little division either between the religious faiths or within them. His was a very secular society, if brutal.The Lord Bishop of Southwark
39"wholly or mainly of a broadly Christian character"38"improve provision for … pupils travelling to schools preferred on religious or philosophical grounds",: My Lords, we are grateful for the time which Ministers and officials of the Department for Education and Skills have given to discussing the Bill on school transport and its related prospectus with officers of the Church of England Board of Education, our colleagues from the Roman Catholic Church and others.39"wholly or mainly of a broadly Christian character"38"improve provision for … pupils travelling to schools preferred on religious or philosophical grounds",The Lord Bishop of Southwark
Official Report."the least dangerous and most hopeful way forward".—[Official Report.6867News Letter: My Lords, perhaps I may first address the comments of the Lord President about the forthcoming electoral Bill. We on this side of the House understand that this Bill is forthcoming, but we obviously cannot make any decisions or agreements about it until my honourable friend David Lidington, the shadow Secretary of State, and others have had a chance to study it and to be briefed on it. So I acknowledge that the Bill is on its way, but the Government should not make any assumptions about Her Majesty's Opposition's views on it.Official Report."the least dangerous and most hopeful way forward".—[Official Report.6867News LetterLord Glentoran
58: My Lords, I thank the Lord President for bringing the order before us today. Not so very long ago I was minded—and made it well known—to oppose the order. However, I have to tell the House that politics have worked. I have been
58Lord Glentoran
59: My Lords, I, too, thank the Minister for introducing the order and for her patience with the position that I have taken. I have long indicated that we on these Benches want to see very positive steps being made to introduce much greater transparency into the financing of political parties in Northern Ireland. That is also the Government's stated aim.59Lord Smith of Clifton
pacede facto71Mañana7069: My Lords, this is a very timely debate for two reasons: first, the House does not have enough opportunity to discuss Northern Ireland in general; and, secondly—which will be my focus as it was basically for the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran—the
pacede facto71Mañana7069Lord Smith of Clifton
454443: My Lords, I welcome this Bill. As the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, said, it is a narrow measure but I believe that it has the opportunity to impact in a very positive way on the quality of life of possibly millions of schoolchildren and their parents.454443Lord McKenzie of Luton
2928: My Lords, we recognise the tremendous tragedy of the aircraft crash. We also recognise that the Government, for sensible reasons,
2928Lord Wallace of Saltaire
Official Report,"We must ensure that the boundaries of proper acceptable behaviour are the price of peace. We must be clear about that. It is not possible to have peace, stability and reconciliation unless everyone abides by the same reasonable and proper rules".—[Official Report,82"Credit is also due to the many young people of Northern Ireland, both Catholic and non-Catholic, who continue to demonstrate their ability to move toward peace and stability by applying to join the Police Service, with over 38,000 applications having been received by the Police Service since 2001"."The degree of change already accomplished over a relatively short period, from the Autumn of 2001 to the Autumn of 2004, is both remarkable and unparalleled in the history of democratic policing reform. It must be remembered that over this difficult and challenging period, the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) was still required to provide an effective policing service and had to ensure community safety against a backdrop of security, crime and other concerns".81An Alphabetical Listing of Word, Name and Place in Northern Ireland and the Living Language of Conflict,80Official Report,"the price to be paid will be a much less direct, less publicly accountable system and little effective input from the citizens of Northern Ireland on how they are governed or, more accurately, administered".—[Official Report,"Were there not to be a restoration, the pattern of Northern Ireland government would be that which now obtains".: My Lords, the previous debate we had on Northern Ireland was held in April last year. Sadly we appear to be no closer to a solution to the restoration of the Assembly than we were then. My noble friend Lord Smith of Clifton has already reminded us that when he spoke in that debate, he accurately predicted:
Official Report,"We must ensure that the boundaries of proper acceptable behaviour are the price of peace. We must be clear about that. It is not possible to have peace, stability and reconciliation unless everyone abides by the same reasonable and proper rules".—[Official Report,82"Credit is also due to the many young people of Northern Ireland, both Catholic and non-Catholic, who continue to demonstrate their ability to move toward peace and stability by applying to join the Police Service, with over 38,000 applications having been received by the Police Service since 2001"."The degree of change already accomplished over a relatively short period, from the Autumn of 2001 to the Autumn of 2004, is both remarkable and unparalleled in the history of democratic policing reform. It must be remembered that over this difficult and challenging period, the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) was still required to provide an effective policing service and had to ensure community safety against a backdrop of security, crime and other concerns".81An Alphabetical Listing of Word, Name and Place in Northern Ireland and the Living Language of Conflict,80Official Report,"the price to be paid will be a much less direct, less publicly accountable system and little effective input from the citizens of Northern Ireland on how they are governed or, more accurately, administered".—[Official Report,"Were there not to be a restoration, the pattern of Northern Ireland government would be that which now obtains".Baroness Harris of Richmond
79sine qua non.78"and with traditions of extreme violence"."with an organisational structure and discipline, and the experience of planning, learning and conducting sophisticated clandestine operations, methods of handling money"—Perceptions of and concern about crime in Northern Ireland,"legitimately enforced only by duly appointed and accountable law enforcement officers or institutions".77: My Lords, the IRA, as Gerry Adams once famously said, has not gone away. It is, however, deeply reassuring that both the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach have publicly attributed the Northern Bank robbery to Sinn Fein/IRA. Unfortunately, this means that Sinn Fein will have an immense war chest when it comes to an election and, indeed, the money to buy influence to protect the paramilitaries. Meanwhile, it is not unlikely that Sinn Fein/IRA will continue to misjudge the real commitment of both governments to the Belfast agreement and to disregard the law in their dealings with their communities by continuing to flout that law and, at the same time, to deny that Sinn Fein has anything to do with the decisions of the Provisional IRA.79sine qua non.78"and with traditions of extreme violence"."with an organisational structure and discipline, and the experience of planning, learning and conducting sophisticated clandestine operations, methods of handling money"—Perceptions of and concern about crime in Northern Ireland,"legitimately enforced only by duly appointed and accountable law enforcement officers or institutions".77Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, I agree both with the point about sympathy for the families of those affected by the Hercules crash and with that about the relief and pleasure at the way in which the polls went yesterday.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
37: My Lords, if I may say so, the noble Lord, Lord Stoddart of Swindon,
37Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, my noble friend has reinforced the tricky question put forward by the noble Lord, Lord Wallace of Saltaire—no doubt because it was a tricky question. We do have troops stationed permanently in some parts of the world, but I am not in a position to say what will be the outcome of any discussions with an eventual Iraqi Government who are backed by the full authority of the people's mandate in the elections at the end of the year.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
36: My Lords, I endorse everything that the noble Lord has said. I know how good those crews are. I have flown in Hercules aircraft myself in Iraq. I know the care that is taken and the skill, expertise and dedication of those who fly them. Of course everything needs to be done as quickly as possible to ensure that the families, in particular, know why their loved ones died. I know that my noble friend Lord Bach, who is in his place
36Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
33: My Lords, I thank the right reverend Prelate for what he has said. Some of the unsung heroes of this conflict have been our service padres, who at times during the military conflict
33Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lord Clinton-Davis. When he asks me whether I would like to comment on the attitude of certain individuals, quite honestly, my answer to that is no, not really. I think that the Iraqi people have borne more than adequate testimony to what they want and have given a far better, stronger and more articulate answer to those who take the view of the sort described by my noble friend than ever I could from this Dispatch Box. The courage and determination of the Iraqi people to get to the polls yesterday is to be applauded. Like many noble Lords, I watched those who are first-time voters walking along with elderly people who had to be carried. They were clearly determined not to be kept at home, no matter what the threat to their personal safety. Watching that yesterday was a truly humbling experience.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the Americans have put in more troops in order to provide security for the election process, but I am afraid that the noble Lord may be disappointed with my full answer, which is the same as that I would make if we were talking about the United Kingdom. Troop numbers are kept under review and will continue to be kept under review in consultation with Ministers of the incoming temporary Iraqi government. However, this is something that all members of the multinational force will want to talk about, not least because they will want to consult the incoming Ministers on the Iraqi side.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
35: My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe of Aberavon, for his message of sympathy. I am sure it will be greatly appreciated.35Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
3130: My Lords, I thank the noble Lords, Lord Howell of Guildford and Lord Wallace of Saltaire, for their response to the Statement. I, too, believe that this has been a very encouraging step forward in moving towards democracy in Iraq. I am grateful to the noble Lords for expressing their condolences to the families and loved ones of those affected by the Hercules air crash.3130Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
26"new national dialogue that guarantees that all Iraqis have a voice in the next government"."There will still be violence, but the terrorists now know that they cannot win".252423: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement being made in another place by my right honourable friend the Foreign Secretary. The Statement is as follows:26"new national dialogue that guarantees that all Iraqis have a voice in the next government"."There will still be violence, but the terrorists now know that they cannot win".252423Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
"LEAs have considerable discretion in making those arrangements and may take into account other forms of help for these categories of pupils, such as the mobility allowance and provision of a 'motability' car".22"Transport should only be recorded in the statement in part 6 in exceptional cases, where the child has particular transport needs".2120"No charge may be made … for travel arrangements for children from low income families, unless the child has been given an opportunity to attend a suitable school closer to his home but chooses to attend one further afield"."Schemes will focus on measures that meet the needs of LEAs".19: My Lords, perhaps I may say at the outset that in general we on these Benches believe that local authorities should have power to make suitable arrangements for their local area in relation to transport matters and the related welfare of the children who attend their schools. I also accept that there have long been major congestion and road safety problems around school gates in the morning and afternoon and that many children do not get anywhere enough exercise. There are also escalating costs relating to school transport."LEAs have considerable discretion in making those arrangements and may take into account other forms of help for these categories of pupils, such as the mobility allowance and provision of a 'motability' car".22"Transport should only be recorded in the statement in part 6 in exceptional cases, where the child has particular transport needs".2120"No charge may be made … for travel arrangements for children from low income families, unless the child has been given an opportunity to attend a suitable school closer to his home but chooses to attend one further afield"."Schemes will focus on measures that meet the needs of LEAs".19Baroness Walmsley
"This moves away from the principle of free education for all".48"will cause uproar amongst parents. They will ask whether this is the beginning of an attack on free education. It will be deeply unpopular and could be extremely expensive for those with several children"."No charge may be made under the scheme for travel arrangements for children from low income families, unless the child has been given an opportunity to attend a suitable school closer to his home but chooses to attend one further afield"."The Government seems confused as to the objectives of its draft Bill. The Secretary of State has said that it will encourage more children to walk or cycle to their local school, yet this does not sit easily with Government policies to increase diversity in schools and to allow for the expression of parental preference; an approach that encourages greater mobility",ad infinitum?47"All schemes must aim to cut car use on the home to school journey. Beyond that, they must focus on local priorities and may improve provision for one or more of: pupils travelling to schools preferred on religious or philosophical grounds"."No charge may be made under the scheme for travel arrangements for children from low-income families, unless the child has been given an opportunity to attend a suitable school closer to his home but chooses to attend one further afield".46: My Lords, as my noble friend Lady Walmsley made clear, we on these Benches welcome many aspects of this Bill. As the Minister stated in presenting the Bill to the House, the main objectives are to get more children walking and cycling; to limit the number of private cars on the school run; to encourage local education authorities to introduce novel and attractive alternatives and to encourage more children and parents to use communal rather than private transport."This moves away from the principle of free education for all".48"will cause uproar amongst parents. They will ask whether this is the beginning of an attack on free education. It will be deeply unpopular and could be extremely expensive for those with several children"."No charge may be made under the scheme for travel arrangements for children from low income families, unless the child has been given an opportunity to attend a suitable school closer to his home but chooses to attend one further afield"."The Government seems confused as to the objectives of its draft Bill. The Secretary of State has said that it will encourage more children to walk or cycle to their local school, yet this does not sit easily with Government policies to increase diversity in schools and to allow for the expression of parental preference; an approach that encourages greater mobility",ad infinitum?47"All schemes must aim to cut car use on the home to school journey. Beyond that, they must focus on local priorities and may improve provision for one or more of: pupils travelling to schools preferred on religious or philosophical grounds"."No charge may be made under the scheme for travel arrangements for children from low-income families, unless the child has been given an opportunity to attend a suitable school closer to his home but chooses to attend one further afield".46Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, does my noble friend the Minister accept that the whole House feels great sympathy and regret at the loss of life due to the crash of the Hercules?Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
50"it is therefore hard to see how the Bill will extend parental choice to low-income families"."seems directly to conflict with Government policies on diversity of schools and parental preference, which increase mobility"."the encouragement of people to go to their local neighbourhood school and. therefore. to travel less".49: My Lords, I welcome the opportunity to speak in this important and significant debate. The Bill extends beyond the mere transportation of pupils to and from school. It directly affects policy on diversity, choice and equal access to education for pupils, whether they live in town or country, and whether or not they live with a disability.50"it is therefore hard to see how the Bill will extend parental choice to low-income families"."seems directly to conflict with Government policies on diversity of schools and parental preference, which increase mobility"."the encouragement of people to go to their local neighbourhood school and. therefore. to travel less".49Baroness Morris of Bolton
(Buroness Amos.)[4th Report from the Joint Committee].57[4th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 20 December 2004 be approved. (Buroness Amos.)[4th Report from the Joint Committee].57[4th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Amos
63: My Lords, I recognise the difference of opinion around the Chamber. The Government had hoped to resolve this matter at the end of the four-year period. However, that has not been possible, for the reasons that I described in my opening remarks. I thank those noble Lords who have said that they will support the order and recognise the context in which the Government are advancing it.63Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.)6564rose to move, That this House takes note of developments in Northern Ireland.(Baroness Amos.)6564Baroness Amos
929190: My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have participated in tonight's debate, which reflects the interest, knowledge and expertise in this House on Northern Ireland. It has been a very sober debate, although my noble friend Lord Dubs struck a note of optimism, and the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew, considered that the Government should stick to our plans with respect to coming to an inclusive arrangement in Northern Ireland as per the Belfast agreement.929190Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the third Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I thoroughly appreciate and understand the concerns raised. That is why, in my explanation, I talked about a debate in the Moses Room. I am very happy to take away this matter and discuss it with the Clerks, but I reassure the House that it is intended that procedures during debates in the Moses Room should be as close as possible to those on the Floor of the House.Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.)Monetary and Fiscal Policy: Present Successes and Future Problems: My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper. I shall also speak to the other two Motions in my name.(Baroness Amos.)Monetary and Fiscal Policy: Present Successes and Future ProblemsThe Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
89: My Lords, I shall intervene in the gap with proper brevity and proper diffidence after so remarkable a speech. I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, who said that we must not conclude that we have reached the end of the political road. There may be other roads—we have heard some outlined tonight—but it is by far the best road. My fear is that the Government will, by jettisoning the means to keep it open, secure that that road becomes closed. That would be a disaster.89Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: Next Question!Noble Lords
"We further recommend that the use of such artificial means should be determined by the doctors concerned in consultation where possible with the patient's family, friends or recognised representatives, on the basis of that patient's best interests and having due regard to previously expressed wishes given in any advance decision. If a valid and a clearly expressed wish not to have artificial means of nutrition and hydration is expressed, and the advance decision is otherwise valid, then that wish should be respected"."falls outside what is normally considered to be treatment and should always be available to people whereas the latter should be regarded as treatment in that the decision to use such artificial means is a clinical one to be made in accordance with best professional practice, and in the best interests of the patient concerned, and having consulted those specified"—"the Bill should seek to draw a distinction between basic care (which would include the giving of nutrition and hydration by normal means as well as actions to assist the general hygiene and comfort), and the use of artificial means of nutrition and hydration, such as drips or naso-gastric tubes. We support the view that the former"—119"at any time … however administered".: This group of amendments covers a very sensitive area. One might say that Amendment No. 92, tabled by the noble Baroness, Lady Knight of Collingtree, represents the "absolutist" position. It contains the phrase,
"We further recommend that the use of such artificial means should be determined by the doctors concerned in consultation where possible with the patient's family, friends or recognised representatives, on the basis of that patient's best interests and having due regard to previously expressed wishes given in any advance decision. If a valid and a clearly expressed wish not to have artificial means of nutrition and hydration is expressed, and the advance decision is otherwise valid, then that wish should be respected"."falls outside what is normally considered to be treatment and should always be available to people whereas the latter should be regarded as treatment in that the decision to use such artificial means is a clinical one to be made in accordance with best professional practice, and in the best interests of the patient concerned, and having consulted those specified"—"the Bill should seek to draw a distinction between basic care (which would include the giving of nutrition and hydration by normal means as well as actions to assist the general hygiene and comfort), and the use of artificial means of nutrition and hydration, such as drips or naso-gastric tubes. We support the view that the former"—119"at any time … however administered".Lord Carter
120"The undisputed consensus of eminent medical opinion is that there is no prospect whatever that Anthony Bland will ever make any recovery from his present condition, but that there is every likelihood that he will maintain his present state of existence for many years to come, provided that the medical care which he is now receiving is continued".: I have the Bland judgment here: I have just checked that. I can assure the noble Baroness that they were unanimous that the appeal should be dismissed, which is how they put it.120"The undisputed consensus of eminent medical opinion is that there is no prospect whatever that Anthony Bland will ever make any recovery from his present condition, but that there is every likelihood that he will maintain his present state of existence for many years to come, provided that the medical care which he is now receiving is continued".Lord Carter
: That proves the point that this must be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. However, I return to the argument that if Tony Bland could have remained alive for many years in his condition because his treatment was neither harming him nor was it unduly burdensome, I am not sure how that would be dealt with by the amendments before us.Lord Carter
: At the risk of making it appear that doctors speak with one voice, which in itself would he an unusual event, I agree with what was said by the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg. The Bill already ensures all that is sought by the amendment. While the Minister needs to clarify that in her response, 1 believe that that is the case.Lord Patel
: Before the noble Earl sits down, I shall ask a very simple question. I agree with him and I have listened to this debate and have had masses of correspondence. Although I agree that one must not confuse this situation with the abortion situation, does my noble friend agree that it is extremely difficult to draft an appropriate control of a conscience clause?Lord Campbell of Alloway
: A small point. Members of the Committee have spoken largely about doctors, but the amendment does not mention them. The word "person" is so potentially broad that it needs to be adjusted to the kinds of things that I think were intended.Lord Christopher
: My Lords, in view of the slightly unrevealing nature of his answers to my noble friends' questions, can the Minister give us an assurance that the in-service or commission date for the first of the two carriers is still 2012?Lord Luke
: Before the noble Baroness sits down, perhaps I may say that all people with a learning disability—referred to just now as mental handicap—do not necessarily lack capacity.Lord Rix
207Page 19, line 34, leave out "advice" and insert "support"moved Amendment No. 130:
207Page 19, line 34, leave out "advice" and insert "support"Lord Rix
: Best boy.Lord Rix
: I say to the noble Lord, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, that this is not a precise science. Many of the people with a profound intellectual multiple disability, who number about a quarter of a million in this country, have parents struggling at home to give them care 24 hours a day. Those people could do with independent advocacy to support them through all the vicissitudes of benefits, and so on.Lord Rix
Hansard: The noble Earl, Lord Howe, said that we would get a sympathetic reaction to our amendments. I am sure that the aura of sympathy and understanding which arose from the Dispatch Box percolated to every corner of your Lordships' House. There is no doubt that the Minister fully understands our concerns, and I am sure that she will take them away and come hack on Report with amendments that may assuage our problems—not our guilt, but our worries.HansardLord Rix
215Page 20, line 31, leave out paragraph (b).moved Amendment No. 143:
215Page 20, line 31, leave out paragraph (b).Lord Rix
: In that spirit, I am very happy to beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Rix
: My Lords, before business begins, may I take the opportunity to inform the House that I will be undertaking a ministerial visit to Barnsley on Friday 4 February? Accordingly, I trust that the House will grant me leave of absence.The Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: I support Amendment No. 167 proposed by the noble Earl. I know that the noble Baroness dislikes lists, but in the lines of WS Gilbert, she does not have this particular group on her list; she has seven other groups on her list, but she does not have people involved in research. Given the gravity of the debate that we had earlier today and the issues that were raised, the noble Earl is right to draw our attention to this omission, and I hope that when the noble Baroness replies she will be in a position to rectify that.Lord Alton of Liverpool
212: In order to give the Committee some feel for the scale of the problem, can the Minister give some idea of the number of people who fall into the unbefriended or unsupported group, as it were? I refer to those people who are not in a
212Lord Alton of Liverpool
: It is the scale and scope that we are trying to put our fingers on. If the Minister cannot answer now perhaps she will do so in correspondence later, but can she give a figure of how many people that 20 per cent represents?Lord Alton of Liverpool
200199: I have added my name to this amendment, and I am happy to support the remarks made by the noble Baroness, Lady Barker. She, the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, and the noble Earl, Lord Howe, have proposed this amendment.
200199Lord Alton of Liverpool
: Listening to what the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, and my noble friend had to say, I think that there is an argument that we have to appreciate and understand families who are giving loving support and who are advocates for those they care for. I would not want my amendments or those of my noble friend to conflict with that in any way. I am happy for continuing discussions to take place about that. Unbefriended people who have incapacity for various reasons or are impaired for other reasons and do not have people like the noble Lord to care for them—the issue that the Minister has just addressed in her response to the debate—raise another set of issues. That is where we need to focus our attention. I hope that between now and Report the Minister will be able to do so.Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I support the spirit of the amendments that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, has tabled. In Amendments Nos. 174 and 175 the noble Lord is correct to direct us towards the affirmative procedures as being appropriate in such cases. The codes that we have discussed are of sufficient importance to warrant that level of parliamentary scrutiny and accountability. Anything less than that would send the wrong signal outside your Lordships' House, so I hope that the Minister will be sympathetic to the arguments that the noble Lord has advanced.Lord Alton of Liverpool
157: Before the noble Baroness withdraws her amendment, I should like the Minister
157Lord Alton of Liverpool
: The noble Lord brings great experience to this debate from his previous ministerial responsibilities. Does he accept that a linkage should be made between the specific condition of the patient and the research being carried out, so that there is a possibility that it might help or remedy the condition that the patient experiences, rather than just a wider and much vaguer idea of the general good?Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I would not want the silence at this stage of the debate on research to be misunderstood as agreement with carrying out research in these circumstances unless other safeguards are put in place. Without pre-empting my own Amendment No. 127 and amendments in the name of the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, and others, we will be having that debate a little later. This is almost a back-to-front debate. I think it would have been better in some respects if we had decided whether and in what circumstances there should be research before getting these kinds of detail.Lord Alton of Liverpool
"directly benefit P"."have the potential to".cordon sanitaire149That Hideous Strength.: As the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, was moving Amendment No. 105, I was thinking of a piece of fiction written just after the Second World War by C S Lewis called "directly benefit P"."have the potential to".cordon sanitaire149That Hideous Strength.Lord Alton of Liverpool
"At all times, the life, health and well-being of P shall take precedence over the research [the Helsinki point] being carried out on P and, in the event of any danger to P's life, health or well-being, P must be withdrawn from the project unless his life, health and well-being can be protected by the research being undertaken in a different manner"."The clinician and health-care workers responsible for the care of P shall remain responsible for protecting the life and health of P and shall, at all times, ensure that P's life and health are protected during the course of research."interests of science and society should never take precedence over considerations related to the well-being of the subject"."designing a single set of provisions which is designed not only to cover intrusive medical research but also other less intrusive types of research has the effect of diluting the standards applicable to the former type of intrusive research".161"Securing the benefits of research for people who lack capacity is a legitimate aim, but pursuit of it must be accompanied by strict safeguards in order to be compatible with the rights of people lacking capacity"."The introduction again of a reference to `reasonable grounds for believing', the reference to 'negligible' rather than 'minimal', and the introduction of the qualification that the impact on the person's rights should not be 'significant', all in our view reduce the threshold for the carrying out of research on people lacking capacity, and therefore make it more likely that such research will be carried out in circumstances which are not contemplated by the Human Rights and Biomedicine Convention"."We again consider, on an initial comparison of the two requirements, that the provision in the Bill is a much weaker requirement than that contained in the Convention".160"the breadth of the test for whether the research is intended to add to the sum of general knowledge on the subject under clause 31(4)(b) and the absence of a structure in which it is only in
160"We find it impossible to avoid the conclusion that the nature of the benefit from the research required in clause 31(4) of the Bill has the effect of lowering the threshold of when research will be permissible compared to the standards contained in the Convention. The absence of a reference to the potential benefit being 'real and direct' in clause 3I(4)(a)"—"It seems to us, on initial consideration, that the introduction of the reference to there being reasonable grounds for believing that the research would be less effective if carried out only on persons with capacity is a significant dilution of the condition contained in the Human Rights and Biomedicine Convention, which states the requirement as a matter of fact rather than as a matter of reasonable belief.159: Amendment No. 127 is grouped with Amendment No. 107, which was moved by my noble friend Lady Chapman. Perhaps I may say
"At all times, the life, health and well-being of P shall take precedence over the research [the Helsinki point] being carried out on P and, in the event of any danger to P's life, health or well-being, P must be withdrawn from the project unless his life, health and well-being can be protected by the research being undertaken in a different manner"."The clinician and health-care workers responsible for the care of P shall remain responsible for protecting the life and health of P and shall, at all times, ensure that P's life and health are protected during the course of research."interests of science and society should never take precedence over considerations related to the well-being of the subject"."designing a single set of provisions which is designed not only to cover intrusive medical research but also other less intrusive types of research has the effect of diluting the standards applicable to the former type of intrusive research".161"Securing the benefits of research for people who lack capacity is a legitimate aim, but pursuit of it must be accompanied by strict safeguards in order to be compatible with the rights of people lacking capacity"."The introduction again of a reference to `reasonable grounds for believing', the reference to 'negligible' rather than 'minimal', and the introduction of the qualification that the impact on the person's rights should not be 'significant', all in our view reduce the threshold for the carrying out of research on people lacking capacity, and therefore make it more likely that such research will be carried out in circumstances which are not contemplated by the Human Rights and Biomedicine Convention"."We again consider, on an initial comparison of the two requirements, that the provision in the Bill is a much weaker requirement than that contained in the Convention".160"the breadth of the test for whether the research is intended to add to the sum of general knowledge on the subject under clause 31(4)(b) and the absence of a structure in which it is only in
160"We find it impossible to avoid the conclusion that the nature of the benefit from the research required in clause 31(4) of the Bill has the effect of lowering the threshold of when research will be permissible compared to the standards contained in the Convention. The absence of a reference to the potential benefit being 'real and direct' in clause 3I(4)(a)"—"It seems to us, on initial consideration, that the introduction of the reference to there being reasonable grounds for believing that the research would be less effective if carried out only on persons with capacity is a significant dilution of the condition contained in the Human Rights and Biomedicine Convention, which states the requirement as a matter of fact rather than as a matter of reasonable belief.159Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I, for one, am extremely grateful for the way in which the noble Baroness has responded to the arguments I advanced earlier. I guess that my noble friend Lady Chapman, will reply, as the person who moved the lead amendment in the group. However, I am very pleased at what the noble Baroness has said and look forward to corresponding with her between now and Report.Lord Alton of Liverpool
104: I support the spirit which lies behind the amendment moved by the noble Earl. My only concern is the way in which it is phrased and whether it takes into account sufficiently the criticisms that have been made by the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which has looked at how conscience clauses work generally. It says in regard to this approach that it does not allow the doctor who does not want to be involved to walk away completely from the situation; he has to refer it on to someone who would be willing to do the things to which he takes ethical objection.104Lord Alton of Liverpool
"What must be avoided, in our view, is the imposition of any duty on an individual physician with a conscientious objection, requiring him or her to facilitate the actions contemplated by the Act to which they have such an objection".: I am grateful for the forbearance of the Committee and will be brief. The Minister has been extremely helpful in what she has said this afternoon. If we can find some way of putting that sentiment in words, as my noble friend suggested, it would go a long way to assist the patient and the doctor. Everyone would benefit."What must be avoided, in our view, is the imposition of any duty on an individual physician with a conscientious objection, requiring him or her to facilitate the actions contemplated by the Act to which they have such an objection".Lord Alton of Liverpool
"It is ironic that the only reason that tube feeding 'gas been identified as 'treatment' has been so that it can he withdrawn. Much of the debate has concentrated on the argument that tube feeding is futile treatment. I would argue that tube feeding is extremely effective since it achieves all the things we intend it to do. What is really being argued is whether the patient's life is futile—hence the need to find some way of ending that life. Once this decision is made then whatever means we use to end that life must have the definite intention of doing so—that is, euthanasia"."in relation to the withdrawal of ANH, the presumption in favour of life-sustaining treatment is not sufficiently strong in the Bill to satisfy the requirements of Articles 2, 3 and 8 as explained by the High Court in Burke".Burke114"a detailed assessment of the potential benefits and risks associated"—"ANH (artificial nutrition and hydration) should remain an area for active therapeutic decision making, based upon the best medical information available to the attending clinicians. I would emphasise that the instigation or maintenance of ANH is not a neutral decision but one that requires detailed assessment of the potential benefits and risks associated"."where it is proposed to withhold or withdraw life prolonging artificial nutrition and hydration prior judicial authorization must be obtained in most circumstances. The requirement that the Court be involved in such issues stems from the common law but it is enhanced by the Human Rights Act 1998 and the right to respect for private and family life under Article 8(1)".113"the provision of nutrition and hydration, however provided"."which term shall include … the relief of pain, suffering and discomfort … cleanliness","the provision of nutrition and hydration, however, provided save where that provision would harm the person"."the relief of pain, suffering and discomfort … cleanliness".112: When the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, introduced her Patients' Protection Bill to your Lordships' House, I strongly supported what she sought to do. She has rendered the Committee a
"It is ironic that the only reason that tube feeding 'gas been identified as 'treatment' has been so that it can he withdrawn. Much of the debate has concentrated on the argument that tube feeding is futile treatment. I would argue that tube feeding is extremely effective since it achieves all the things we intend it to do. What is really being argued is whether the patient's life is futile—hence the need to find some way of ending that life. Once this decision is made then whatever means we use to end that life must have the definite intention of doing so—that is, euthanasia"."in relation to the withdrawal of ANH, the presumption in favour of life-sustaining treatment is not sufficiently strong in the Bill to satisfy the requirements of Articles 2, 3 and 8 as explained by the High Court in Burke".Burke114"a detailed assessment of the potential benefits and risks associated"—"ANH (artificial nutrition and hydration) should remain an area for active therapeutic decision making, based upon the best medical information available to the attending clinicians. I would emphasise that the instigation or maintenance of ANH is not a neutral decision but one that requires detailed assessment of the potential benefits and risks associated"."where it is proposed to withhold or withdraw life prolonging artificial nutrition and hydration prior judicial authorization must be obtained in most circumstances. The requirement that the Court be involved in such issues stems from the common law but it is enhanced by the Human Rights Act 1998 and the right to respect for private and family life under Article 8(1)".113"the provision of nutrition and hydration, however provided"."which term shall include … the relief of pain, suffering and discomfort … cleanliness","the provision of nutrition and hydration, however, provided save where that provision would harm the person"."the relief of pain, suffering and discomfort … cleanliness".112Lord Alton of Liverpool
: Before the noble Lord sits down, the whole Chamber will have been very moved by what the noble Lord has just said. I think that he will understand and agree that no Members of the Committee have been arguing for any kind of burdensome treatment. Indeed, I think that we all would have acted in the humane way in which the noble Lord has acted.Lord Alton of Liverpool
Guardian: I am grateful to the noble Lord for raising that point. We have been advised that it does not disturb the Bland judgment. I have also discussed that assurance with the Minister, as I think the noble Lord is aware.GuardianLord Alton of Liverpool
: Does the noble Baroness want to clarify her remark about the noble Baroness, Lady Finlay? She is actually a signatory to my Amendment No. 98 and is a strong supporter of it. She believes that there is a need to strengthen these provisions, if not in precisely the way sought by some of the other amendments. However, the amendments were all grouped together.Lord Alton of Liverpool
"save where that provision would harm the person or otherwise be unduly burdensome to him".: I do not want to detain the Committee unduly, but the Minister has just said that if your Lordships agree to the amendments people would have treatments inflicted upon them that they did not want. Yet Amendment No. 98 categorically says,
"save where that provision would harm the person or otherwise be unduly burdensome to him".Lord Alton of Liverpool
: Before the noble Baroness sits down, I am very grateful for what she said about her willingness to reflect further on what the Joint Committee said about the inadequacies in the Bill. Will she consider a mechanism, before we reach Report stage, for discussing with opposition spokesmen and other Members of your Lordships' House the possibility of taking those concerns into account?Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, can the Minister tell the House whether major reports that British Aerospace may withdraw from the carrier programme should be taken seriously?Lord Craig of Radley
: My Lords, how do the Government intend to respond to the recommendation of the commission from the UN Secretary-General that Darfur, and the international human rights abuses in Darfur, should be referred to the International Criminal Court? Does the noble Baroness agree that if the Security Council does not support that proposal, one of the main planks in the high-level panel's report that more use should be made of such referrals would be made to look pretty weak?Lord Hannay of Chiswick
: My Lords, the trouble with the Minister's answers is that the Americans say that they understand very well indeed what the embargo implies and they do not like it at all. They have indicated that there will be further blocks on defence technology transfer to British firms. Furthermore, it has been indicated in Congress that the so-called ITAR waiver on the transfer of technology will be indefinitely blocked if the embargo is lifted. Why are we and the French pushing so hard for that? Are there huge, lucrative weapons contracts with China about which we have not been told?Lord Howell of Guildford
"The area of the South Lanarkshire Council other than those parts in the Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale County Constituency, the East Kilbride, Strathaven and Lesmahagow County Constituency and the Lanark and Hamillton East County Constituency".: My Lords, the noble Lord is right that the Explanatory Note says that the schedule sets out a description of the constituencies. Could he use his good influence to see that the schedule is reprinted in a more comprehensible manner? I shall give one example. For Rutherglen and Hamilton West Burgh constituency, the description is:
"The area of the South Lanarkshire Council other than those parts in the Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale County Constituency, the East Kilbride, Strathaven and Lesmahagow County Constituency and the Lanark and Hamillton East County Constituency".Lord Steel of Aikwood
Scotsman: My Lords, I do not want to follow the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth. down the rather extraneous byways that he has been talking about. However, he made a point about Scottish matters not being reported promptly and he is a very good example of that. The last time that he made a speech in this place, it was discovered by the ScotsmanLord Steel of Aikwood
187: My Lords, I was making a different point, which was that the noble Lord's speeches are always slightly dangerous but they eventually surface north of the border.187Lord Steel of Aikwood
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for giving way. Does he know when the commission hopes to report?Lord Steel of Aikwood
: My Lords, I have not come to the House today with the formula—much as I love formulae—and I apologise that I cannot answer that question as precisely as the noble Baroness would like. All that I can say is that the element of judgment between projects is giving way to a formula which the institutions generally feel will give rise to a very fair distribution.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, it is absolutely true that knowledge transfer applies equally to the economic well-being of regions as it does to the whole country and there have been a number of important developments. The Northern Way and other growth strategies are beginning to have a positive effect on the areas concerned and the department is working with partners, including the Higher Education Funding Council for England, the regional development agencies and government offices, to ensure that we reduce disparities within regions, while supporting excellence and competitiveness.Lord Triesman
Science & innovation investment framework 2004–2014,: My Lords, the Science & innovation investment framework 2004–2014,Lord Triesman
: My Lords, huge progress has been made in the area by a number of universities, including that so ably represented by my noble friend. It is plain that, starting from a relatively low base, investment in the area to build capacity is one of the most important things that we can do. The Government have responded to the Lambert review, which deals with the long term. Our support for the Higher Education Innovation Fund has been described as a permanent third stream of funding for universities in England, to build capacity further in the university sector for knowledge transfer. That was the basis on which the increased investment that I mentioned was made. It will be a predictable funding stream and it will carry forward some excellent work into the future.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, that is a very important question. The Government's intention is to fund the best research wherever it is found. The aim is to ensure that the overall quality of the United Kingdom's research is competitive and comparable to the best in the world, wherever it is done. It is not the Government's policy to concentrate funding or research, and we are not convinced that there is any such concentration. The quality-related research funding is widely distributed. It is true that 75 per cent of the funding goes to 25 institutions, but at least one major institution is in receipt of major funding in every region of the country.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the basis of the discussion between the HEFC and those two institutions is to ensure that the manner in which part-time students are treated is not to their disadvantage. I believe that those discussions are at an advanced stage, but have not, as yet, culminated. I shall add only one observation, which is that links with business and industry, as my noble friend pointed out, are not just a question of funding; there is also the question of the sources of students and the links that they bring with them and take back after they have completed their courses. That is a very important factor regarding both Birkbeck and the Open University.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I welcome the peace agreement, but how will it affect events in Darfur?Lord Hoyle
in situ?: My Lords, does the noble Baroness agree that the humanitarian aid programme in southern Sudan should be treated entirely separately from the ongoing negotiations in Darfur? Given the below average production of staple food crops in the south, and the probability of significant population returns to the area, the Security Council should take immediate steps to place on the ground the 11,000 peacekeepers that the Secretary-General demands. Is it possible for the humanitarian programme to be initiated before the peacekeepers are in situ?Lord Avebury
: My Lords, on behalf of the noble Earl, Lord Sandwich, and at his request, I beg leave to ask the Question standing in his name on the Order Paper.Lord Avebury
Amendment No. 91 not moved.: I have no difficulty in agreeing with my noble friend. If he is saying to me that my amendment is far from perfect, I would be the first to agree with him. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Amendment No. 91 not moved.Earl Howe
(b) he directs another person to take over responsibility for P's treatment."(a) to implement the decision would contravene a conscientious, ethical or religious belief which he holds, and
(b) he directs another person to take over responsibility for P's treatment."(a) to implement the decision would contravene a conscientious, ethical or religious belief which he holds, and"( ) Where a person reasonably believes that an advance decision exists which is valid and applicable to the treatment, he does not incur liability for failing to implement the decision if and only if—Page 15, line 33, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 90:
(b) he directs another person to take over responsibility for P's treatment."(a) to implement the decision would contravene a conscientious, ethical or religious belief which he holds, and
(b) he directs another person to take over responsibility for P's treatment."(a) to implement the decision would contravene a conscientious, ethical or religious belief which he holds, and"( ) Where a person reasonably believes that an advance decision exists which is valid and applicable to the treatment, he does not incur liability for failing to implement the decision if and only if—Page 15, line 33, at end insert—Earl Howe
108: I am very grateful to all noble Lords who have contributed to this short debate and to the Minister for her reply. I found it encouraging as the inclusion of a suitable provision in the code of practice is a very important building block in the wall. I say to the noble Lord, Lord Christopher, that the word "person" appears in the amendment because I had in mind a case not unlike that mentioned by the noble
108Earl Howe
: I am grateful to the Minister for her reply and to the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, for her remarks. Yes, I concede that the list of relations is arbitrary. The list could probably be varied without countering the point of principle too greatly, but it would still be a list and would therefore offend the noble Baroness. So I am sure that if I bring this point back at Report stage, it will not be in the form of a list. But I think, perhaps, the noble Baroness has said enough to persuade me that I should not take that action in that she has very helpfully told the Committee that the code of practice has reflected the point at issue.Earl Howe
174173Page 19, line 3, after "if" insert "the research involves no invasive action in relation to P beyond that which may be required for his care or treatment and either—"moved Amendment No. 119:
174173Page 19, line 3, after "if" insert "the research involves no invasive action in relation to P beyond that which may be required for his care or treatment and either—"Earl Howe
: The example given by the noble Lord about cardiac arrest research is research that might well benefit the patients themselves, in which case it would not be caught by my amendment.Earl Howe
: I am sure that I speak for the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, as well as myself in thanking the Minister, particularly for his positive response on Amendments Nos. 120 and 121. That is extremely helpful. I was also greatly helped by the Minister's full answers on the other two amendments to which I spoke. I shall reflect carefully on what he said. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
: I have no problem with the thrust of the safeguards in subsection (5); I think they are admirable. We shall come on to debate their detail in a while.Earl Howe
"knowledge of the causes or treatment of, or of the care of persons affected by, the same or a similar condition"."have the aim of contributing, through significant improvement in the scientific understanding of the individual's condition … to results capable of conferring benefit to the person concerned or other persons … afflicted with the same … condition".: In Amendment No. 109 I approach this issue from a rather different angle from that of my noble friend in the last set of amendments because I do accept that there are circumstances when it is ethically justifiable to carry out research on someone who is mentally incapacitated, even though there is no prospect that the research will benefit them directly. I must make my apologies to my noble friend for taking a different view."knowledge of the causes or treatment of, or of the care of persons affected by, the same or a similar condition"."have the aim of contributing, through significant improvement in the scientific understanding of the individual's condition … to results capable of conferring benefit to the person concerned or other persons … afflicted with the same … condition".Earl Howe
Page 17, line 40, after "causes" insert ", diagnosis"moved Amendment No. 110:
Page 17, line 40, after "causes" insert ", diagnosis"Earl Howe
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
Page 18, line 1, after first "the" insert "additional"moved Amendment No. 112:
Page 18, line 1, after first "the" insert "additional"Earl Howe
: That was a very helpful reply. I will indeed consider what the noble Baroness said as it is clearly undesirable to have any perverse effects from an amendment such as this. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
Page 18, line 4, at beginning insert "unduly"moved Amendment No. 113:
Page 18, line 4, at beginning insert "unduly"Earl Howe
: Once again I am grateful to the Minister for her full reply which largely persuades me that the amendment I have proposed is wrong. However, I shall reflect further. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
170Page 18, line 37, at end insert "(subject to the following subsection)"moved Amendment No. 117:
170Page 18, line 37, at end insert "(subject to the following subsection)"Earl Howe
"attributable to, or causes or contributes to",141: I am not sure that I totally subscribe to the wording of the amendment in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg. I think that he may have sacrificed explicitness for neatness and therefore the amendment may not achieve all that it should. But that is not to say that I claim anything like perfection in
"attributable to, or causes or contributes to",141Earl Howe
140: Before we bid farewell to Clause 30 there is one issue on which I hope that the Minister can be of assistance. The noble Lord was kind enough to write to me and others last month, setting out some of the Government's thinking on this part of the Bill and relating these provisions to the corresponding provisions in the Human Tissue Act and the clinical trials regulations. I thank him for doing that, as I found his letter most helpful.140Earl Howe
130"lawful if and only if,: I wish to speak to Amendments Nos. 101 and 116, which are grouped with Amendment No. 100. Amendment No. 101 seeks to substitute the words,
130"lawful if and only if,Earl Howe
"has not the potential to produce results of direct benefit to the health of the person"."the potential to produce real and direct benefit to [the person's] health",: In Amendment No. 106, I take a slightly different tack from that adopted by my noble friend. As I said earlier, I think that the words "have the potential to" are the only appropriate words in the context of research, which is, by definition, exploratory. I agree fully with what the noble Lords, Lord Hunt and Lord Turnberg, said in that connection."has not the potential to produce results of direct benefit to the health of the person"."the potential to produce real and direct benefit to [the person's] health",Earl Howe
203: I want to speak in support of the amendments that propose a change of name. In the Minister's shoes, one might well hesitate over whether it is worth changing a name. One might ask: what does a name matter? Here, I think that it does matter because what the Bill is seeking to achieve in these provisions is at odds with the flavour of the nomenclature. The word "advocate", which has an active sense of someone speaking on behalf of and in defence of another person, has a completely different connotation from the word "consultee", which is essentially passive and carries no sense that there is a person on whose behalf and in whose corner the consultee is acting.203Earl Howe
: I am very largely reassured by that reply. I am grateful to the Minister for confirming that the Government will look at ways of clarifying the code of practice. I am, however, left with just a residual niggling worry. The problem with what the Minister has said is that his reassurance is predicated on the assumption that there will always be some benefit to the incapacitated adult in taking a blood or tissue sample, even though that may not be the prime purpose of the intervention. In the case of a needle-stick injury, what happens if the patient is not expected to recover? If there is no clinical benefit to the patient, and no other intangible benefit at all to the patient in the blood sample being taken from him, it is difficult to see how the best-interest test would be met in those circumstances.Earl Howe
"( ) But (save only for an advance decision of P which has effect and of which R is aware) nothing in this section requires treatment that P has been receiving as part of the project to be discontinued if R has reasonable grounds for believing that there would be a significant risk to P's health if it were discontinued."Page 19, line 29, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 126:
"( ) But (save only for an advance decision of P which has effect and of which R is aware) nothing in this section requires treatment that P has been receiving as part of the project to be discontinued if R has reasonable grounds for believing that there would be a significant risk to P's health if it were discontinued."Page 19, line 29, at end insert—Earl Howe
: That is a very helpful reply. I am extremely grateful to the noble Baroness and I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Earl Howe
Inside Information,195(c) anything done to P will not interfere with P's freedom of action or privacy in a significant way or be unduly invasive or restrictive."(b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the risk to P in performing the action will be negligible;(a) the action has the potential to avert the death of, or serious illness in, another person;
(c) anything done to P will not interfere with P's freedom of action or privacy in a significant way or be unduly invasive or restrictive."(b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the risk to P in performing the action will be negligible;(a) the action has the potential to avert the death of, or serious illness in, another person;An action carried out on or in relation to a person who lacks capacity to consent to it ("P"), notwithstanding that the action may not be in his best interests, is lawful if and only if in the opinion of two registered medical practitioners—"NON-THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONSAfter Clause 33, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 128:
Inside Information,195(c) anything done to P will not interfere with P's freedom of action or privacy in a significant way or be unduly invasive or restrictive."(b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the risk to P in performing the action will be negligible;(a) the action has the potential to avert the death of, or serious illness in, another person;
(c) anything done to P will not interfere with P's freedom of action or privacy in a significant way or be unduly invasive or restrictive."(b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the risk to P in performing the action will be negligible;(a) the action has the potential to avert the death of, or serious illness in, another person;An action carried out on or in relation to a person who lacks capacity to consent to it ("P"), notwithstanding that the action may not be in his best interests, is lawful if and only if in the opinion of two registered medical practitioners—"NON-THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONSAfter Clause 33, insert the following new clause—Earl Howe
: I do not want to add to this debate unduly. A tremendously important point was made by the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross. This is an important set of amendments. I have added my name to many of them. I should like to make it clear that I will not move Amendment No. 139.Earl Howe
217: I should like to speak briefly to Amendments Nos. 167 and 168 which are grouped here. These two amendments address closely related issues. My question to the Minister is whether she will consider including within those matters that the Lord Chancellor must include within a code of practice guidance relating to research.217Earl Howe
: My Lords, is the Minister clear in his own mind that Professor Arbuthnott does not have any prejudice about the single transferable vote?The Duke of Montrose
183[Official Report,"The opportunity would not be lost, at some time in the future—on the basis of practice—to reopen this question".—[Official Report,Hansard182: My Lords, first, I offer my thanks to the Minister for bringing this order before your Lordships' House in reasonably quick time. I also add my thanks to the members of the Boundary Commission for producing such a comprehensive, if at certain points controversial, rethink of the Scottish constituencies.183[Official Report,"The opportunity would not be lost, at some time in the future—on the basis of practice—to reopen this question".—[Official Report,Hansard182The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, further to the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Hoyle, does the noble Baroness agree that congratulations should be offered to our own people in the negotiations, and to all those from Kenya, the USA, Norway and Italy who took part in giving support to the Sudanese Government? Given that the new government will contain a large element of southern representatives, they must ensure that they are able to demonstrate a different political and economic attitude to the regions, in order to assure the rehabilitation of the south, the rescue of Darfur and the integrity of the whole country. Will Her Majesty's Government and other observers at Naivasha maintain the same active partnership to aid implementation of the peace agreement?The Duke of Montrose
: In calling Amendment No. 107, I must advise the Committee that if it is agreed to I cannot call Amendments Nos. 108 to 110 inclusive because of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Viscount Simon)
: My Lords, does my noble friend accept that two of the best institutions that also provide links with industry are the Open University and Birkbeck, which provide part-time education for students? A commitment was given in the summer, when the Higher Education Bill was under consideration, that effectively offered money for those two institutions and I am delighted to hear my noble friend say that more money is being put into such areas. The buck was passed at that time to the Higher Education Funding Council. Does he accept that the Government must take responsibility? Can he assure us that the modest sum of money that would be needed for those two institutions would not cost too much out of the huge sums that he has already mentioned and that, whatever the HEFC's report says, that money will be provided?Lord Barnett
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, why has a major contract not been signed for any of these vital projects? Why has there been further delay? Has the MOD run out of money to pay for them, and when will a decision be made on the physical integrator for the carriers?Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, I am not so sure about that.Lord Sewel
188: My Lords, I join other noble Lords in welcoming the order and, following the noble Lord, Lord Maclennan, pay tribute to the work of the Boundary Commission, the Secretary of State and the political parties in Scotland for handling in a mature and sensible way what is a major revision of electoral representation in Scotland. The matter could have been extremely sensitive and divisive. It brings credit to all the parties involved.188Lord Sewel
: My Lords, perhaps I may make what I hope is a helpful intervention. I sometimes wish that I had somehow copyrighted the term Sewel Motion, in which case I could have retired even earlier from the University of Aberdeen than I did. It is a fact that the Scottish Parliament set up under its Procedures Committee an inquiry into the use of Sewel Motions—interestingly, considering them not just from the Edinburgh but the Westminster end. I am sure that the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth, would be welcomed if he wanted to give evidence to that inquiry.Lord Sewel
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Willoughby de Broke
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for that reply. Has she discussed with our close allies, the United States of America, proposals, if they exist, to relax the EU embargo? What has been that country's reaction?Lord Willoughby de Broke
116: In Amendment No. 92 the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, expresses a not unreasonable anxiety that patients lacking capacity would be denied food and water regardless of whether they had made an advance directive and whether it would be of benefit to them. But the Bill seems riddled with safeguards to ensure that the idea of denial of sustenance to all and sundry could not be realised. The whole of Clause 4 describes best interests, and Clauses 5 and 6 set out how care should be provided.116Lord Turnberg
: Before my noble friend sits down, perhaps I may suggest that Amendment No. 120, standing in my name, might help the noble Lord, Lord Alton.Lord Turnberg
148: I appreciate the reason behind the amendment of the noble Baroness, Lady Knight. She wishes to make the reason for doing research to be of direct benefit to the patient. Unfortunately, that
148Lord Turnberg
151: I am not sure that I can dream up a research project on the spot. I imagine that patients with learning disability have specific defects in their learning. One would want to conduct the research on that particular element. One would want to know how and why the learning difficulty affected them and perhaps try to improve on their management. The aim would be directly to benefit those with learning difficulty, but one could never be sure of improving directly the care and attention of that specific patient on whom the research was conducted.151Lord Turnberg
131: I should like to support the noble Earl's Amendment No. 101, to which my name is attached. I support it for all the reasons that he has so eloquently set out. The question here is whether the words "unlawful unless" in relation to research are paramount and conflict with the later Clauses 31 and 32, which outline the formal steps researchers have to go through before doing a study. As the noble Earl has suggested, might it not be simpler if the words "lawful
131Lord Turnberg
Page 17, line 33, leave out "or brain" and insert ", brain or disorders in other bodily systems associated with or attributable to the incapacity"moved Amendment No. 103:
Page 17, line 33, leave out "or brain" and insert ", brain or disorders in other bodily systems associated with or attributable to the incapacity"Lord Turnberg
144: I am grateful to my noble friend for that thorough and full explanation of the reasons why my amendment is not acceptable. However, it is important to clarify the issue, if only for the research ethics committees, which are placed in a difficult position and have to make difficult decisions. The
144Lord Turnberg
: When it was first tried it had only potential to affect the patients. We did not know whether it would.Lord Turnberg
: I shall speak to my Amendment No. 120. Subsection (9)(a) of the clause applies in an emergency situation where it is not possible to get immediate agreement from the categories of individuals laid out in earlier provisions of Clause 32. In this case, it allows researchers to seek the agreement of a registered medical practitioner. However, the wording specifically excludes the patient's own doctor—the one who is caring for the patient is excluded. This seems a little odd, as the noble Earl has suggested, because I suspect that many, if not most, patients would be glad if it was their own doctor who was asked for agreement. He is likely to know more about them than another doctor who happened to be passing by.Lord Turnberg
162: I do not think it will come as a surprise to the noble Lord, Lord Alton, to learn that I have a lot of sympathy for his amendment. I like the idea that he expresses because it places emphasis on the role of the clinician, the person looking after the patient, to act as a sort of protector during research. That is absolutely critical.162Lord Turnberg
202mutatis mutandis"past and present wishes and feelings, beliefs and values and other factors which he would consider are relevant to the decision or proposed action if he were able to do so"."to participate or improve his ability to participate as fully as possible in the act proposed to be done or the decision to be made affecting him"."permit and encourage",201"to assist P when D is considering doing an act, or making a decision to do an act which will, in any way, affect the care or welfare of P".Official ReportOfficial Report,: It will be clear from what I said at Second Reading and on the second day of Committee—202mutatis mutandis"past and present wishes and feelings, beliefs and values and other factors which he would consider are relevant to the decision or proposed action if he were able to do so"."to participate or improve his ability to participate as fully as possible in the act proposed to be done or the decision to be made affecting him"."permit and encourage",201"to assist P when D is considering doing an act, or making a decision to do an act which will, in any way, affect the care or welfare of P".Official ReportOfficial Report,Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: If I understood the noble Lord, Lord Rix, correctly, I would, of course, not agree with extending compulsorily the independent advocate service to those who are not unbefriended.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: Perhaps I can help with the mathematics.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: I am advised that there are some 160,000 people with severe and profound learning disabilities in the country at the moment. If the Minister is right—and I have no reason to doubt it—and 20 per cent of them are unbefriended, then in the category I am speaking about alone it comes to some 32,000 people. I do not query the noble Baroness's percentage, but it seems quite high to me that one in five should be unbefriended. If that is so, it gives one the nature and the scale of the tragedy.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: I do not wish to put on the same gramophone record again. Of course, I accept what the noble Baroness has just said and what the noble Lord, Lord Alton, said about unbefriended people. Unfortunately, there are unbefriended people, even in the category of those whom I represent.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: Those figures could fit together. The noble Baroness mentioned decisions, and I was talking about people. Not every person has to have a decision made every year.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
190: My Lords, I was not attempting to rap the knuckles of the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth; I should not have the nerve. I was simply pointing out that very few things discussed in this House are self-contained. Everything leads to other matters. I was suggesting as politely as I could that we ought to concentrate on the order in hand and leave its implications and connections in other areas to a later debate. Obviously, we will have many more discussions on orders for Scotland and other Scottish matters.190Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, this has been a wide-ranging short debate. Perhaps "wide-ranging" is code for a debate that very often strayed beyond and well off the subject of the order tonight—but, so what? In my limited experience, every time that the word "Scotland" appears on the Order Paper, we revisit the whole concept of devolution, and we have done so briefly this evening.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
Hansard191: My Lords, I am sorry; I did not hear that remark from the Sewel Motion.Hansard191Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I have no evidence, no feeling, that Professor Arbuthnott and his commission—he will not be the only person handling this important report—will not have a completely open mind when preparing their work. We hope and expect to be here in a year's time praising his report as we have praised the Boundary Commission's report today.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: Yes, my Lords, the commission hopes to report by the end of this year.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
(Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.)[4th Report from the Joint Committee]181180Hansard: My Lords, I do not remember in detail the number of people who expressed that view, but I do remember that we had a long and detailed debate on this matter last year, when the number who responded from all those who were consulted was revealed to the House and is in (Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.)[4th Report from the Joint Committee]181180HansardLord Evans of Temple Guiting
179: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for that intervention, which I shall deal with when I reply to the debate.179Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
178"as soon as may be",[4th Report from the Joint Committee] rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 14 December 2004 be approved 178"as soon as may be",[4th Report from the Joint Committee]Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for giving way and I apologise for interrupting him but, given that he said that the consultation had "overwhelming" support for retaining the numbers of MSPs at 129, can he remind me how many people expressed that view?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
186185: My Lords, I do not want to detain the House, but I congratulate the Government on the order. I have a certain empathy with the Secretary of State for Scotland. When I was the Secretary of State, I too had to bring forward a Boundary Commission order that made it pretty well impossible for me to win my constituency. I suspect that the present Secretary of State may be in the same position. It is a real testament to public duty in our country that Secretaries of State can do that with a smile on their face and in time for the next general election.
186185Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
189: My Lords, I feel that the Minister is rapping my knuckles. That matter is entirely relevant. The Government propose to reduce the number of Members of Parliament from Scotland at Westminster in the other place. At the same time, more and more devolved measures are passing through Westminster because of the use of Sewel
189Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
Scotsman: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, but he does the ScotsmanLord Forsyth of Drumlean
193: I am sympathetic to the matter raised. I understand that there may be times when a person in research might temporarily or instinctively resist the application of some essential procedure that is intended to protect them from risk of harm, distress or pain. It is certainly not our intention to require researchers to discard standard safety measures simply because a person without capacity objects to them.193Lord Warner
196: We are in deep legal territory with this set of amendments. I have taken careful note of points made by noble Lords and of points previously raised by the British Medical Association about acts relating
196Lord Warner
: The nub of what I was saying is that the concerns expressed by the BMA and by the noble Earl and the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, are already met in the Bill because of the legal judgments relating to the wider interpretations of best interests. I was saying that, no matter how beautifully crafted, the wording in the amendments tabled by the noble Earl, Lord Howe, is not necessary because the protections he is seeking are in the Bill as presently drafted.Lord Warner
177176: We are all agreed that emergency treatment research is an important part of the Bill, and we all want to get this right. I will make a few remarks of context before dealing with the amendments. The clauses as they stand recognise that some research inevitably takes place in situations where a person is temporarily incapacitated as a result of a sudden trauma, such as a car accident, stroke, or a serious infection. It is important that such people can have urgent medical attention. It is also sometimes the case that vital research can be done in these situations to understand what changes the body undergoes during the first few moments after the event.177176Lord Warner
Research: Apart from the emergency research areas, which the noble Earl mentioned, I am unaware of any other areas where we have concerns. I hope that the letter and the chart were helpful. I cannot provide a precise timetable regarding the amendments arising out of emergency research. We are undergoing a consultation process on that. I shall need advice on where we stand on the Human Tissue Act. I shall write to the noble Lord on both issues.ResearchLord Warner
138137136135"Research has been defined as an activity that attempts to derive new knowledge by addressing clearly defined questions (hypotheses) using systematic and rigorous methods. The knowledge gained may provide information that can be generalised to the particular illness, disorder, or circumstances under investigation".134133: I thank noble Lords for raising a number of important points about the inclusion of provisions on research in the Bill and about the purpose of Clause 30 in particular. As this is the first group of amendments on research, it might be
138137136135"Research has been defined as an activity that attempts to derive new knowledge by addressing clearly defined questions (hypotheses) using systematic and rigorous methods. The knowledge gained may provide information that can be generalised to the particular illness, disorder, or circumstances under investigation".134133The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, will my noble friend indicate whether the Ministry of Defence is spending more time and money on the assessment phase of procurement programmes, so attenuating the risk of project management?Lord Truscott
: I well understand the issues raised by the noble Baroness and the noble Lord, Lord Alton. Clearly, there must he sufficient safeguards in the circumstances described to ensure that research is properly carried out. I look forward to my noble friend's response.Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: Once one starts to define matters in the way the noble Lord does, I suspect that it becomes much more difficult to undertake research. I must confess that I am attracted to the concept of the greater good. Whatever our circumstances I think that there is justification for that, provided there are sufficient safeguards. Certainly, the amendment proposed by the noble Baroness is far too draconian. I do not think any researcher could set out under those circumstances.Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
163: Perhaps I may ask the noble Earl whether one of the problems is that it is very difficult to forecast in advance whether a particular piece of research will be highly significant. When we embark on research, we set out on a journey.163Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: My Lords, the reply of the Minister about internal—Lord Hylton
: My Lords, on Darfur, has there been progress towards a complete ceasefire and the disarmament of all militias?Lord Hylton
: My Lords, will my noble friend draw to the attention of the governments of France and Germany the last part of her Answer, relating to weapons used for internal repression or external aggression, since those governments seem to be the most keen to abandon the EU embargo? That would cause enormous dismay to Taiwan, which every day faces 600 missiles pointing its heart from the coast of China?Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: I too support the spirit of the amendment. The rights to safeguard conscience are very much part of the culture of our country and are enshrined in law in a number of ways. Therefore, this provision would be nothing that is unusual or untoward. As has already been made clear, patients are not going to suffer as result of it because alternative provision has to be made. So it is eminently sensible and right to support at least the spirit of the amendment, even if the wording needs to be altered in some way.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
"however provided, save where that provision would harm the person or otherwise be unduly burdensome to him".115: When the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, brought her Patients' Protection Bill before the House, I took her concerns very seriously and wrote to a number of medical organisations to see whether they had any evidence to support the kind of examples that she put before us. I have to say that, so far, they have not come back to me with any real evidence that supports some of the horrific stories that the noble Baroness recounted at
"however provided, save where that provision would harm the person or otherwise be unduly burdensome to him".115The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: That is a little unfair. I took what the noble Baroness said very seriously. In fact, I took it so seriously that I wrote to all the reputable medical organisations to share with them her concerns and to ask whether they had any supporting evidence.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
184: My Lords, I, too, am ready, willing and, indeed, enthusiastic about extending to the Minister gratitude for the way that he introduced the order. I am also grateful to the Boundary Commission for the work that it has done. It is right to recognise in this debate just how significant a change this is in the Scottish political geographical landscape.184Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: I am sure that the Minister will take a look at the human rights legislation, if she has not already done that. I have no doubt that she will draw attention to that issue in her summing up.Lord Winston
British Medical Journal: I shall chip in briefly. Beauchamp and, more recently. Raanan Gillon—who I think published in the British Medical JournalLord Winston
118extremis.: Because food is given out by the housekeeping department, that does not in any way absolve the nursing on the ward from responsibility for the care of the patient. In speaking to the four amendments, as a central moral principle, I have—just like the people who have tabled the amendments—the notion of the fundamental sanctity of human life, which is the central pillar of all our morality.118extremis.Lord Winston
: My Lords, coming back to southern Sudan, which is the subject of the Question, how long will it take to establish what the mandate of the peacekeepers should be? How does the noble Baroness evaluate the risk of the present situation breaking down if there is any significant delay?Lord Elton
: My Lords—Lord Dearing
98: My Lords, following the points made by the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, will the Minister
98Lord Dearing
: My Lords, will the Minister consider delaying one aspect of funding associated with the carrier project? Do the Government have the ability to hold back some of the £2 billion promised towards the Joint Strike Fighter development until we receive assurances from the American Government over technology transfer, which we talked about in the previous Question?Lord Garden
: My Lords, following the Minister's congratulations to Augusta Westland on its great achievement, does he recognise that it bears out that early authorisation must be given for projects of this kind? Perhaps I may say—not in false modesty, I hope—that I placed the order for the Merlin helicopter
in 1991. It has now become the plane that has received the supreme accolade of being chosen as the executive aircraft for the President of the United States. But it warns of the tremendous time lag involved in the construction projects for these sophisticated weapons systems.Lord King of Bridgwater
: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Lord on the decision that he took. The helicopter that has arisen from that decision is a world-beater, as the recent result shows. However, I still maintain that, when looking at large procurements, it is important not to rush to production too soon.Lord Bach
: My Lords, as I said to the noble Lord, Lord Astor, a minute ago, one of the justified criticisms in this whole field over many years is that we sign up to production too soon. I cannot repeat often enough that the result is that, at a later stage, problems arise. If those problems were dealt with earlier, we would not have the delay and cost increases to which defence procurement has been prey for 40 or 50 years. The principles of Smart acquisition call for spending more money and more time earlier, if necessary, to drive out risk before production begins. That is easier to say than to do because there are all kinds of pressures on us to get the contract signed, whether they be from industry, the media or others. We must resist those pressures.Lord Bach
: My Lords, the in-service date for any project is not decided upon until the main investment decision—main gate—is reached, for very good reason. It is then that you look at the whole project, see where you are with it and what the trade-offs have been and then decide on a date. The year 2012 is still the date that we have in mind for the first aircraft carrier.Lord Bach
: My Lords, of course we are not spending all that money at this particular moment; we are spending it during the project phase of the Joint Strike Fighter. It is important to remind the noble Lord that, although there are great difficulties in getting technology transfer of any kind from the Americans—indeed, that was mentioned during the previous Question—the fact is that, so far, we have the technology transfer that we need for the Joint Strike Fighter. The real test will come in the next 18 months or so when we see whether we get the technology transfer that we need to support our own Joint Strike Fighter.Lord Bach
: My Lords, there is always speculation on major projects of this kind, such as the CVF—the aircraft carrier—and I am not going to comment on speculation, whether it has appeared in the press or elsewhere. We are in discussions with BAe Systems, as we are with other companies involved in this major project.Lord Bach
: My Lords, I reassure the noble Lord that we have not run out of money. But we refuse to take decisions too early—something that has happened often in the past under governments of all parties. We rush to production for some of these major projects and find that we have not even begun to take out the risks. Then we meet them in the production phase, find that we are spending far too much money on them and the delays are intense. Therefore, in spite of the pressures to move to major investment decisions, we are determined to wait until we are ready.Lord Bach
101: My Lords, all these programmes are progressing well towards their respective main investment decision points, or main gates, as they are known. Under Smart acquisition, we are determined to spend the right amount of time and money ahead of main gate to gain a better understanding of the risks involved. As part of our normal annual planning process, we review all
101The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
220"A higher level of Parliamentary scrutiny is not considered appropriate given that the draft code must meet the requirements for consultation, set out in clause 40(1)".219"( ) A code shall be issued as an annex to an order made by the Lord Chancellor bringing the code into effect."Page 23, line 29, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 169:
220"A higher level of Parliamentary scrutiny is not considered appropriate given that the draft code must meet the requirements for consultation, set out in clause 40(1)".219"( ) A code shall be issued as an annex to an order made by the Lord Chancellor bringing the code into effect."Page 23, line 29, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
: I am sorry that the noble Baroness did not reply to the first part of my argument—that is, that the code should be brought in formally as a statutory instrument rather than in this alternative way. However, that is a highly technical point which does not appeal to the Minister and it is not one that I shall particularly press.Lord Goodhart
222Page 23, line 31, leave out subsection (3).moved Amendment No. 170:
222Page 23, line 31, leave out subsection (3).Lord Goodhart
: I am grateful to the Minister. Once again, this is a wholly technical point. If the Government feel it necessary to keep the provision in the Bill, so be it. It is a small point, but it is worth looking at. It is contrary to the normal practice of drafting to put in a specific power of delegation of this kind. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, will the Minister confirm that a change in the formal status of EU policy towards arms sales to China is unlikely to produce any real change in what is sold? Will the British Government's plans for strengthening controls on EU arms sales give particular attention to enforcing those controls?Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: They were not.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
106: The difficulty is that we need to be very clear. If a doctor, in conscience, feels that he cannot carry out a certain operation or technique on a patient, of course the patient must be allowed to get his treatment elsewhere. I think there would be no disagreement about that in the mind of any of us.106Baroness Knight of Collingtree
"If we can get people to accept that the removal of food and fluid is a painful way to die, they will accept that it is in the patient's interest to allow lethal injection"."Thou shalt not kill, but need'st not strive Officiously to keep alive".111110109Notwithstanding sections 24 to 26, it is unlawful for a person responsible for the care or treatment of P at any time to withhold water or food or other sustenance, however administered, from P."WITHHOLDING OF WATER AND FOOD moved Amendment No. 92:"If we can get people to accept that the removal of food and fluid is a painful way to die, they will accept that it is in the patient's interest to allow lethal injection"."Thou shalt not kill, but need'st not strive Officiously to keep alive".111110109Notwithstanding sections 24 to 26, it is unlawful for a person responsible for the care or treatment of P at any time to withhold water or food or other sustenance, however administered, from P."WITHHOLDING OF WATER AND FOODBaroness Knight of Collingtree
: I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
128: I think that if one wished to be balanced in the matter, one might seek other information, not just from the people most closely concerned. What the right reverend Prelate said was most hurtful, because I assure the Committee that I did not introduce the Patients' Protection Bill because of a flight of imagination. If he would like to meet the people who talk to me about their concerns, including the Member of Parliament whose wife was affected, I would be more than happy to arrange it. I will, if he wishes, also arrange to let him see the newspaper reports and details of the television programmes. The facts were such that they worried me. I talked to people and heard what they had to say; I introduced the Bill, and later this amendment, because of what they said.128Baroness Knight of Collingtree
"be intended to provide knowledge of the causes or treatment of, or of the care of persons affected by, the same or a similar condition"."In the work of research, ethics must sometimes prevail, in spite of the importance of research to medical progress. The Government is trying to rush this too far in favour of researchers and to the detriment of 'subjects'".147Through the Looking-Glass,Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,au poivre.146"has no connection with the project"."The research must be connected with a condition which affects P".145"to push or force something upon one; being forced on a person without leave"."as part of a research project".Page 17, line 38, leave out "have the potential to" and insert "directly"moved Amendment No. 105:
"be intended to provide knowledge of the causes or treatment of, or of the care of persons affected by, the same or a similar condition"."In the work of research, ethics must sometimes prevail, in spite of the importance of research to medical progress. The Government is trying to rush this too far in favour of researchers and to the detriment of 'subjects'".147Through the Looking-Glass,Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,au poivre.146"has no connection with the project"."The research must be connected with a condition which affects P".145"to push or force something upon one; being forced on a person without leave"."as part of a research project".Page 17, line 38, leave out "have the potential to" and insert "directly"Baroness Knight of Collingtree
Hansard: It is always a great pleasure to listen to the noble Baroness, Lady Ashton. The more carefully one listens to her, the more information one obtains. After making one or two brief remarks, I shall return to what she has said. Reports of debates such as these are extremely important—HansardBaroness Knight of Collingtree
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. She referred to Clause 32(2). Was that what she meant? I am finding a little difficulty in following that, but I shall think very carefully about the rest of what she said.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
(b) without his consent".(a) on or in relation to a person who had capacity to consent to it, but
(b) without his consent".(a) on or in relation to a person who had capacity to consent to it, but"if it is of a kind that would be unlawful if it was carried out—: I am grateful to the noble Baroness for much of what she said. I confess that I do not think that all of my concerns have been met, but I have no doubt that she has done her very best.(b) without his consent".(a) on or in relation to a person who had capacity to consent to it, but
(b) without his consent".(a) on or in relation to a person who had capacity to consent to it, but"if it is of a kind that would be unlawful if it was carried out—Baroness Knight of Collingtree
158: I am most grateful for that point. In my experience, during discussions outside this Chamber but within this House with people who are in some way impaired, I was very pleased to find that quite a number of them do not lack capacity.158Baroness Knight of Collingtree
197: I was very impressed with the intention in paragraph (c) of the new clause to
197Baroness Knight of Collingtree
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Lockwood
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that encouraging reply. Does he agree that UK universities have done very well in responding to government initiatives on knowledge and research transfer to industry on a commercial basis? If I declare an interest as chancellor, I can say that my own university—Bradford—has done well under the bidding system and lived up to its motto, "Making knowledge work". Nevertheless, if the science and innovation of our universities is to be a permanent part of our economic life and of the business of the community, does he also agree that universities will have to invest more in infrastructure and support staff to maintain such activity? In turn, does that not require a more permanent and consistent method of funding?Baroness Lockwood
Effect of advance decisionsBaroness Ashton of Upholland.103: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.
Effect of advance decisionsBaroness Ashton of Upholland.103The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: The noble Baroness would not expect me to comment on the assertion that people have been sacked. That is a matter that I will pass on to my noble friend Lord Warner. The noble Baroness makes an important point, which goes back to what the noble Lord, Lord Alton, also said.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
105"If … the doctors are for any reason unable to carry out the wishes of the patient, their duty is to find other doctors who will do so".(Consent to Treatment: Capacity)Re B: I fully support the principle that I know lies behind the amendment. As I discussed with the noble Lord, Lord Alton, doctors are entitled to have their personal beliefs respected and should not be pressurised to act in a way that is contrary to those beliefs. We recognise that doctors and other health professionals may disagree in principle with a patient's right to refuse life-sustaining treatment or may have moral objections to withholding or withdrawing life-prolonging treatment in some circumstances.105"If … the doctors are for any reason unable to carry out the wishes of the patient, their duty is to find other doctors who will do so".(Consent to Treatment: Capacity)Re BBaroness Ashton of Upholland
126125124123: We have had one of the most important debates on this Bill and I am extremely grateful to all those who have contributed to it. Many noble Lords have testified to the importance of the legislation in its aim to ensure that it protects and empowers individuals who lack capacity, thus enabling the right decisions to be made on their behalf. I shall begin by agreeing with the noble Lord, Lord Alton. in expressing on behalf of the whole House our concern for my noble friend Lord Winston's mum. Under the circumstances, it was amazing that my noble friend remained in his place to raise these issues. It is important for us to hear from him both as an individual and in his professional capacity.126125124123Baroness Ashton of Upholland
127: I am not sure that the committee said that the Bill was particularly
127Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I was trying to be very clear that I understand the intention behind the amendments. However, as I have indicated, it is quite difficult when it comes to interpretation. I accept that the anxiety behind the amendments is to make things safer and better for vulnerable people, and I share that desire. My argument is very straightforward: we should not do this on the face of the Bill. Just as importantly, we have to be clear that artificial nutrition and hydration, while an emotive issue for very good reasons, is a treatment, for the reasons I have given. As such, it needs to come under the safeguards provided for treatments and we have sought to provide clarity in the Bill to ensure that when people decide not to accept a treatment, they are absolutely certain about what they are doing.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
205204: It has been a helpful debate. As the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, said, I did commit at Second Reading to consider a name change. I did not table my amendments at this stage because I wanted to have the debate. The noble Earl, Lord Howe, is right: on occasion, one finds that the name that one has, with good intent, given to something is at odds with what people wish that thing to be and with how they view it.205204Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: The position described by the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, is where we all want to find ourselves eventually, but we are not there yet by any means. It is important to remember that we are talking about a particular service and particular decisions. That is where we think some of our most vulnerable people need to be supported. I can see where the noble Baroness is going and were the magic wand available, we might all get there faster.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
218: I shall endeavour to be as positive as I possibly can in the light of the invitation to be so that I felt was in the words of, in particular, the noble Lord, Lord Alton. I say to the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, that I will not cover affirmative resolution if that is all right, because it is in the next group of amendments. I would be preempting, which I am sure is bad parliamentary procedure.218Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I shall try to find another way of saying what I have already said. I recognise that in all these groups of amendments noble Lords are looking for ways in which we can try to define how we will extend this service. I say at the outset that the Government's ambition is to have good consultation with those who can help us extend the service to the most vulnerable in the most difficult situations. It is my ambition that that is where we begin, not where we end. I believe there is a general agreement in the Committee that we should protect the most vulnerable first and move outwards and onwards to try to capture more and more people.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Rather than take the time of the Committee now, I shall write to the noble Baroness about those matters. It is a question of ensuring that we position this correctly, but I am certain we shall find ourselves in the same place.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
213: I am not sure whether this will enlighten the Committee completely but I hope it will help a little. The assumption is that there will be about 17,000 decisions each year in England and Wales, of which 6,000 will be about serious medical treatment and nearly 11,000 about care moves. That is the assumption built on within the Bill.
213Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Please do.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Sadly, no. My briefing gives 20 per cent but not a figure. I shall of course write to the noble Lord and copy the letter to other noble Lords.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I say to the noble Earl immediately that I have a real sense of the importance of those issues. In a sense, that is very reassuring. The debates that we are having in the Chamber today are reflected in the debates that I have had with lots of different groups and, indeed, with those who, like me, are struggling to make all this work effectively in a legislative framework.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: The only figure of which I am certain is that of the number of people we would classify as having issues around lack of capacity, about 20 per cent of whom are unbefriended. So we know that that would be a clear group. As the noble Lord will appreciate, the difficulty with any other group is how we define it. So those who have relatives in theory but not in practice would be one group; and perhaps elderly people where there are issues about how to support them effectively could be another. I am sure that there are organisations which could probably give us a ballpark figure, but it would be an art, not a science.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
211210: No, I shall not go that far. Also, to the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, the days of gramophone records are gone. Now it is whether you have your i-tunes downloaded to your iPod. With those comments to prove that I am up to
211210Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Making Decisions: It is unusual for the Government to find themselves in a position where they want something in the Bill that noble Lords feel may not be necessary. I do not have a specific answer as to why the provision has to be in the Bill, but I think the effect of taking it out would not be what the noble Lord wants.Making DecisionsBaroness Ashton of Upholland
221: I might have known that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, would find the mistake in the Bill. I can always rely on the noble Lord to do that and I am grateful to him. I feel a little like saying to your Lordships that I cannot quite win, because I take great note of the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee. I was taught when I first became a Minister that it was a committee that I should not only take note of, but to whose requests I should immediately accede. If the committee had asked me to take action on this matter, I would have done so. I also urge noble Lords to accept that the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee does a fantastic job. It holds the Government to account on these issues and makes recommendations.221Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.Baroness Andrews
194: The noble Earl is quite right: we need to have consistency on this issue, and I
194Baroness Andrews
: We look forward to the next round of debate. I will see what I can do to clarify the assumptions made by the noble Baroness. I would just stress that we believe in all sincerity that the safeguards that we have got, the conditions that are attached, the language that we use and the protocols that already exist are very robust, even compared with some of our international partners. The point made by the noble Baroness about science and society will be addressed in a later amendment in the name of the noble Lord. Lord Alton.Baroness Andrews
: The noble Baroness and I will have to disagree. My interpretation and best advice is that no research will be carried out that would be unlawful on a person with capacity. Consent must be obtained from the person without capacity. I will write to the noble Baroness to give her more supporting and contextual evidence.Baroness Andrews
: I cannot give the noble Lord a swift answer on that. It may be that there are protocols in the governance of research which prevent that from happening. I shall have to seek advice from my noble friend, but I shall be happy to look into it and to answer the question.Baroness Andrews
156155154153"Research has been defined as an activity that attempts to derive new knowledge by investigating clearly defined questions (hypotheses) using systematic and rigorous methods".: I meant Clause 30(2)(b). If there is any further ambiguity, we can discuss that later.156155154153"Research has been defined as an activity that attempts to derive new knowledge by investigating clearly defined questions (hypotheses) using systematic and rigorous methods".Baroness Andrews
152: This has been an absolutely fascinating debate. I shall try my best to answer the questions raised. I want do so carefully and to be careful not to use emotive language. I will not use the word "experimentation", although I understand the noble Baroness's reasons for using it. The debate has
152Baroness Andrews
143"the research is into an incapacitating condition with which the person concerned is or may be affected"."the physical or mental condition that prevents obtaining informed consent must be a necessary characteristic of the research population".142: I am very sorry that my noble friend and the noble Earl cannot agree about their amendments. I hope that I can bring comfort to both of them in what I say.143"the research is into an incapacitating condition with which the person concerned is or may be affected"."the physical or mental condition that prevents obtaining informed consent must be a necessary characteristic of the research population".142Baroness Andrews
172: I am grateful to the noble Baroness for making some of the comments that I shall make and for doing so more briefly than I will be able to do. And far from overlooking the noble Earl's mistake in the amendment, I did not even see it. So I cannot blame him for anything.172Baroness Andrews
: I beg to move that the House do now resume. In doing so, I suggest that the Committee restart not before 8.45 p.m.Baroness Andrews
166"It is the duty of the physician in medical research to protect the life, health, privacy and dignity of the human subject"."In medical research on human subjects, considerations related to the well-being of the human subject should take precedence over the interests of science and society".165164: I am grateful for the opportunity to explore some other aspects of these issues, particularly in relation to the research defined in subsection (4)(b). The previous amendments allowed us to debate the relationship between the potential and direct benefits of research. These amendments drive the debate further, as the noble Lord, Lord Alton, said, because they are specifically concerned with research that provides new scientific knowledge. The noble Lord went on to describe the ways in which that can bring benefits.166"It is the duty of the physician in medical research to protect the life, health, privacy and dignity of the human subject"."In medical research on human subjects, considerations related to the well-being of the human subject should take precedence over the interests of science and society".165164Baroness Andrews
169: We are committed to ensuring that people who lack mental capacity should not be denied the benefits that can be obtained through carefully regulated research. We have spoken at length this afternoon about the importance of safeguards and the need for them to be as strong as possible. Clause 31(5)(b) is very clear—the research must not interfere with the person's freedom or privacy in a significant way.169Baroness Andrews
168"the risk to P from taking part in the project",: I understand the concerns underlying the proposal. We should be clear that the risk referred to is the extra risk associated with taking part in research. Even if not taking part in a research project, a person may already face certain risks because of his or her underlying condition. We feel that the Bill is sufficiently clear on this point. It refers to,
168"the risk to P from taking part in the project",Baroness Andrews
167: I have a very simple answer, too. Research into new and better diagnostic methods is important, and we are clear that the Bill covers that. Clause 31(4) allows research to be approved if it is intended to provide knowledge of the causes or treatment of, or the care of persons affected by, the
167Baroness Andrews
171: I air what I think is a legitimate concern about this amendment. The noble Earl, Lord Howe, and I have mostly been in agreement on the MDA amendments, along with other Members of the Committee. However, what happens if a person who lacks capacity does not have anyone who falls into the categories named in Amendment No. 118?171Baroness Barker
129Page 17, line 3, after "Intrusive.' insert ". physical or social" moved Amendment No. 100:
129Page 17, line 3, after "Intrusive.' insert ". physical or social"Baroness Barker
Amendments Nos. 101 and 102 not moved.versus139: I thank the Minister for that detailed and considered answer, which contained some very helpful information. However, there was much in his comments that left me with more doubts about the extent to which different types of research will fall within the provisions of the clause. I appreciate the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, about the imperfections of the amendment—it was tabled solely as a means of having this debate. In my defence, I should say that all the amendments relate to medical research. Indeed, the only bodies mentioned in all these clauses are medical, so it is not surprising that those who have considered this Bill have focused on medical research. That is right, because medical research is the most contentious issue.
Amendments Nos. 101 and 102 not moved.versus139Baroness Barker
: I thank the noble Lord for that clarificationBaroness Barker
122: I rise briefly to add one point. I am sorry that the noble Lord, Lord Winston, has had to leave the Chamber. I wish for him the same as I wish for all those who are in his situation: that they may do what is right and causes the least pain to the person they love. As the noble Lord, Lord Carter, has explained most eloquently, I remain convinced that the Bill will enable clinicians, alongside families, to reach decisions. Those will be taken at different points and under different circumstances for every individual patient.122Baroness Barker
[Official Report,"Similarly, HIV testing would be lawful if there were a needlestick injury to a nurse involved in P's care and if a timely diagnosis of HIV status would be in P's best interests, so that treatment could be started".—[Official Report,"I can confirm that the Bill will not prevent a genetic test for a familiar cancer, for example, that might not be essential to P's medical care but would provide considerable benefit to some other family member.: I should like to speak to Amendment No. 128A, which drives at the same point that the noble Earl, Lord Howe, has raised. On balance, I probably prefer the wording of his amendment to mine, so in the highly unlikely event that we succeed with this one, I shall give way to the noble Earl.[Official Report,"Similarly, HIV testing would be lawful if there were a needlestick injury to a nurse involved in P's care and if a timely diagnosis of HIV status would be in P's best interests, so that treatment could be started".—[Official Report,"I can confirm that the Bill will not prevent a genetic test for a familiar cancer, for example, that might not be essential to P's medical care but would provide considerable benefit to some other family member.Baroness Barker
192Page 19, line 16, leave out "Nothing may be" and insert "Anything" moved Amendment No. 123:
192Page 19, line 16, leave out "Nothing may be" and insert "Anything"Baroness Barker
206Companion: I thank all noble Lords who have taken part in this debate. I must confess that I have had considerable difficulties. There are some things that I would like to have discussed but I think that they are more properly left to another group of amendments.206CompanionBaroness Barker
198Page 19, line 33, leave out "consultees" and insert "advocates"moved Amendment No. 129:
198Page 19, line 33, leave out "consultees" and insert "advocates"Baroness Barker
: I thank the Minister for that reply. This is an issue that should be pursued. I hesitate to suggest that it is an area in which one would do well to consult with clinicians in order to be quite clear about the point we are trying to reach and to come up with wording which reflects that. None of us would wish to see a situation where people were in pain and were unable to have their views considered; neither do we wish to stop people from being involved in simple, routine procedures that may be to their benefit. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Barker
Where there is a dispute".Where the action to be taken appears to be contrary to the wishes and feelings of the person who lacks capacity"Where the person who lacks capacity has no ascertainable wishes or feelings and is compliant208: I am a mere member of the chorus on this occasion. I support the amendments, spoken to so ably by the noble Lord, Lord Rix. My name is attached to many of them.Where there is a dispute".Where the action to be taken appears to be contrary to the wishes and feelings of the person who lacks capacity"Where the person who lacks capacity has no ascertainable wishes or feelings and is compliant208Baroness Barker
: Before the noble Lord, Lord Rix, replies on behalf of the whole group, I should like to take the Minister back to Amendment No. 186. I was a little disappointed that she said we could not add a group of people to a list. We already have a list. Perhaps she will write to me explaining why independent advocates cannot be on it. Will she also explain what would be the effect of enabling independent advocates to go through the kind of processes that we have talked about, such as making applications to the court, if they do not have the same force as the people covered by the Bill?Baroness Barker
: I thank the noble Baroness for that reply, which was helpful. Her point about the place of research in the code of practice is important, and I understand why different formats have not yet been put in place. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Barker
Page 23, line 18, at end insert "in suitable formats for the information and guidance of P" moved Amendment No. 165:
Page 23, line 18, at end insert "in suitable formats for the information and guidance of P"Baroness Barker
: My Lords, I shall not detain the House too long. I welcome the report. It has caused an enormous amount of discussion. The House should realise how very great the changes are. In the part of the country where I live it has involved considerable upheaval, and we are not the only part.Baroness Carnegy of Lour
132: When the Minister replies to this group of amendments, perhaps he could say a word about the place of local medical research ethics committees in this whole scene. For several years I was the chairman of one of these local committees in Scotland, and we had in our area a hospital where there were a number of people with insufficient capacity to make up their minds for themselves. A great many research projects were put before us, a number of which applied to that hospital.132Baroness Carnegy of Lour
"should not be an increase of arms exports from EU member states to China, neither in quantitative or qualitative terms"."the result of any decision",: My Lords, when this matter was discussed recently at the EU meeting on 16 and 17 December, the extract from the presidency's conclusions underlined that,
"should not be an increase of arms exports from EU member states to China, neither in quantitative or qualitative terms"."the result of any decision",Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the fact is that the Minister's answer is a truthful description of the current position. It is possible that, understandably, those in the United States, like many others, have understood the word "embargo" to mean an absolute ban. I am sure that, as a result of my right honourable friend's discussions with his counterparts in the United States, that is now much clearer.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, as our reports on strategic export controls make clear, there are currently exports of equipment on the military list from this country to China. The EU embargo does not prohibit such exports and United Kingdom policy on what may be exported to China was made explicit to Parliament in June 1998. Our exports are subject to the UK's consolidated criteria, which are among the strictest control measures anywhere in the world and, in our view, offer the best guarantee that military exports will not be used for internal repression or external aggression.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, I repeat that I understand the concerns about this matter, because the use of the word "embargo" implies that there is an absolute ban at the moment and that we would move from an absolute ban to a much freer market. The refusals for the export of items on the military list are, more often than not—not always—already made under the EU code. That code has also been adopted by our allies in France and Germany and, therefore, there is no need to draw their particular attention to that matter. However, under our forthcoming EU presidency, the UK Government would like to discuss strengthening in a number of key respects the code which regulates the export of items on the military list throughout the European Union.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
99: My Lords, perhaps I may be clear with the noble Lord, Lord Willoughby de Broke. We do not believe that this is a relaxation. I well understand the misapprehension, because the use of the word "embargo" might
99Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
107: It seems to me that there is a great deal of point in this amendment, which places this proviso on the face of the Bill. Although I fully understand what the Minister said about the present situation, it is sometimes difficult to implement a change of care of the patient at the last minute unless it is absolutely clear to everybody, and is known to everybody, that this is what is required.107Baroness Warnock
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until 8.45 p.m.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, given that the Minister said that in future the Higher Education Innovation Fund will be distributed by metrics and that it had nothing to do with rationalisation and concentration, what, precisely, will these metrics be?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
Page 17, line 39, leave out "or" and insert "and"moved Amendment No. 108:
Page 17, line 39, leave out "or" and insert "and"Baroness Chapman
: I thank the Minister for that answer. I ask her to go away and think again because a lot of organisations are extremely worried about this part of the Bill. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Chapman
: My Lords, how do the Government intend to resolve the tension between the concentration of research funding in top-rated departments and their aim to remove economic disparities between regions in the UK?Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, what support are Her Majesty's Government providing to combat the outbreak of the rare W135 strain of meningitis in the refugee camps across the border from Darfur in Chad? What is the current known number infected? Are they taking steps to ensure that NGO workers in the area have adequate immunisation?Baroness Rawlings
121: I rise to contribute briefly to the debate. I want to return to what was said by my noble friend Lady Masham, for which I have immense sympathy. She is always on the side of the sick patient and the needs of the frail person. Unfortunately, we know that quite a number of elderly people in our hospitals suffer from malnutrition because they are not adequately fed or provided with sufficient hydration. That is bad practice, some of which comes about because such people need a lot of care and attention, which takes up a tremendous amount of time. Professor Ian Philp, who is the leader of the national service framework, is doing a great deal to try to change the position so that good practice becomes the norm. That is an excellent initiative and I wish that it were given the legal force that I think it needs. Best
121Baroness Greengross
: I rise to speak on behalf of another group with a lack of capacity—adults and older people, in particular—to support the last point of view, but for a different reason. We must be careful and think back to what has been said on several occasions during this debate—that is, the advocate is there to represent the views of an individual who lacks capacity and not to make a judgment on whether those views are correct.Baroness Greengross
: I support this group of amendments, and I have a couple of additional comments to make. The language is of ultimate importance in the setting out of the code. It is also important that the code should be brought to the attention of anyone who is considering appointing a lasting power of attorney so that those people understand the way in which this will work in practice, which will help people to decide what powers they want to give to a LPA. Will the lasting power of attorney instrument draw attention to the code of practice, so that the relevant sections can be read by both the donor and the donee before a lasting power of attorney is drawn up?Baroness Greengross
214: I am sorry if this is out of place, but I should like to make one brief point. If there is a lot of publicity about the advocacy service when it is introduced and it is a local service known by the CAB, Age Concern and Mencap, people do not have to use the service although it is introduced by social services and the voluntary sector and is available to them. I am as worried as the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, about what will happen to people who have intellectual impairment when their parents die—not people who have made wonderful plans but those who have not been able to do so. The service needs to be
214Baroness Greengross
209: I would like to make one point about when an advocate might be available; that is, when residential or nursing care is paid for by the family, but the local authority is involved in placing the person. Currently, if the advocate is available only for someone who has no befrienders, this provision would not necessarily cover those people. It is very important that they do have an advocate. Very often that is the group who miss out on the advice that they need. Therefore, someone has to plead their cause.
209Baroness Greengross
: I am aware that I brought this matter forward too early in the proceedings, so it is not necessary to repeat my comments.Baroness Greengross
117: My name is attached to all the amendments because the noble Baroness, Lady Knight of Collingtree, has her heart and spirit in the right place, as does my noble friend Lord Alton. The point of Committee stage is to tease out what is right. Some provision is needed in the Bill because there is much concern on the part of vulnerable people throughout the country that they may be starved when they go into hospital. Even though there may be safeguards in the Bill, they are not firm enough for those people, who are very fearful.117Baroness Masham of Ilton
: I support the amendment because the clause as it stands might open a door to researchers. We all know that keen researchers can get completely carried away with their research and perhaps forget the interests of the patient. We need some safeguards here.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: Will the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, give the Committee a few examples of the sort of research that would be conducted on people with learning difficulties that could not be carried out on other people? I know that a lot of research is performed on the brains of dead people. I have seen an Alzheimer's brain, which is quite different from a normal brain. But research on dead people is quite different from research on the living.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: As I put my name to these amendments, I support what the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, has just said. At a recent meeting here in your Lordships' House, several people with learning difficulties said that they were concerned that other people would be taking decisions on their behalf and that they did not like that. We should recommend that people who have full capacity and agree to research should be the ones who take part in research, not those who have said that they do not want even their relatives to take decisions on their behalf. The noble Baroness, Lady Knight, was at the meeting when they said that quite clearly. We have to think very carefully. It is a different matter when people agree to something. That is all I have to say, as it has been well said by the noble Baroness.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, we really do have to move on to the final Question.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I am afraid that I do not have any information about the numbers that might have been infected. The noble Baroness will know that we have been working with the World Health Organisation in looking at health issues in the refugee camps. I do not have the answer to her question on immunisation for NGO workers, but I will write to the noble Baroness.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, at the moment, the comprehensive peace agreement does not apply to Darfur, although there are institutional elements in the comprehensive peace agreement that will ultimately apply to Darfur once we have a peaceful settlement there. That depends on the outcomes of the Abuja negotiations under the auspices of President Obasanjo. I understand that those may restart later this month. We hope that they do, because the situation in Darfur remains critical.Baroness Amos
Hansard94: My Lords, first, the money for southern Sudan and for Sudan as a whole is separate from the money that we are giving for humanitarian aid in Darfur. Secondly, with respect to the
Hansard94Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the signing of the Sudan comprehensive peace agreement opens new possibilities for humanitarian and reconstruction assistance. The Secretary of State for International Development has announced a £50 million UK contribution to the United Nations 2005 Workplan for Sudan and the Consolidated Appeal for Eastern Chad from a total allocation of £100 million for Sudan this year. We are encouraging other donors to make similarly early, up-front contributions.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, I do not anticipate that it will take too long to agree the mandate for the peacekeepers—there is already discussion ongoing. If noble Lords recall, although the peace agreement was signed only in January, the agreement was reached at the end of last year, so we have already had some time to plan for this. In terms of a possible breakdown in the situation, there has, for example, been an outbreak of fighting in the eastern side of Sudan. That is a result of the fact that some rebel groups were not involved in the discussions around the comprehensive peace agreement. We have to ensure that they are brought into the process as well.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, we will of course study carefully the recommendations coming out of that report. It was issued at about six o'clock last night in New York. With respect to the recommendation of a referral to the International Criminal Court. that is one way to deal with the situation, and that decision must be agreed by the Security Council. We will be talking to our partners in the Security Council about that as a matter of urgency.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I can only go back to what I said in response to an earlier question, which is that discussions are taking place in Abuja under the auspices of President Obasanjo. Those discussions are currently suspended, but we hope that they will restart towards the end of the month. Given the critical nature of the situation in Darfur, it is vital that both sides sign up to the protocols agreed in Abuja last year with respect, for example, to humanitarian access.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the short answer is yes. The noble Duke will be aware that we, with the United States and Norway, were part of the Troika. We worked with members of the African Union and others to bring about the comprehensive peace settlement. The Government of Sudan were not the only key players involved; John Garang from the south was one of a number of others. Our continuing support will be absolutely critical.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, there is no bar on the purchase of large capital items, provided the purchase is made within the framework of a development project. They key prerequisite is always that the purchase will have a significant impact on poverty. Good development practice, rather than any legislative framework, tends to limit capital purchases.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
230: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for that Answer, which is good news in principle. She will be aware that the tsunami took place six weeks ago and the Governments of both the Maldives and Sri Lanka have published their needs. Within the framework mentioned by the noble Baroness, when will
230Lord Naseby
: My Lords, first, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Naseby, for sending me a copy of his report following his visit to the Maldives and Sri Lanka. On the specific points he raised, we will be working through trust funds with respect to the reconstruction and rehabilitation effort. Obviously, we want to bring down the transaction costs for any one government and that tends to be done either through the World Bank or through the regional development banks.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, can we look again at the perimeters and the hindrances which might restrict aid reaching the places where it is most needed, or, ultimately, those who are already poor will become poorer? Does not the Minister agree that in the coastal areas, which have been devastated, we must not prevent the fisher folk resuming their work and allow developers, with an eye on tourism, to come in because that will mean that the poor will become poorer?Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: My Lords, while I understand the sentiments underlying that question, it is important that we work with the people and the governments in those countries on the longer-term reconstruction effort. We should support those people who want to return to fishing and we should support those who want to move into an alternative form of livelihood. That is why, in terms of longer-term support, we await the needs assessment for each country and look at what we can do as part of a co-ordinated effort on reconstruction.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the total capital investment in new hospital building schemes and the refurbishment and re-equipping of existing hospitals over the past eight years is almost £18 billion. That compares with £12.5 billion in the previous eight years. Further increases are planned, with annual capital investment in the NHS expected to reach £8 billion in 2007–08. That will be almost six times the annual capital spend on the NHS in 1996–97.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for that response. I hesitate to enter a partisan note into the deliberations of your Lordships' House—Lord Harris of Haringey
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, I would be grateful, however, if my noble friend would speculate on the implications of the Conservative Party's plans for future public expenditure, and in particular on the bizarre suggestion from the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer that certain taxes should he made voluntary if people do not like the issue on which the money might be spent or simply feel that they do not use the service concerned.Lord Harris of Haringey
: My Lords, like many Members on this side of the House, I shudder at the prospect of what might happen. It is worth bearing in mind that the money that I mentioned has helped us to complete 49 hospital schemes since 1997, with another 33 under construction. I find it difficult to believe that, under the measures mentioned by my noble friend, we could have that kind of record if the Conservatives were in government. They seem terribly interested in redistributing money from the NHS and putting those resources into the pockets of people who want to pay for private healthcare.Lord Warner
224: My Lords, I should declare an interest as someone who received a knighthood for spending public money in British Rail. Does the Minister accept that there is nothing terribly difficult about spending public money? He is too modest. All those who remember the
224Lord Marsh
: My Lords, I do not have the noble Lord's experience in the transport industry, but I can reassure him that we have also spent money on producing 77,000 more nurses and 19,000 more doctors. Early mortality from cancer has dropped dramatically in this country—the fastest drop in Europe. Those people who are still alive as the result of the services put in place are pretty satisfied customers. I hope that a major drop in coronary heart disease deaths will mean another fairly satisfied group of customers. There are reduced waiting times for in-patient treatment; I could go on.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the new money that has gone into the NHS is good news all round and everyone welcomes it. However, why is the NHS budget now £0.5 billion in the red? Announcements from six NHS trusts recently showed that, from those trusts alone, almost 500 beds, an orthopaedic unit and a pathology lab were set to be closed, and that 470 front-line staff had either been or were about to be laid off. Will the Minister assure us that the new and refurbished hospitals will have the money to stay open?Earl Howe
: My Lords, what I can say is that the revenue budgets for the NHS will reach about £92 billion in 2007–08, compared with £69 billion. That will be a much better position in which to cope with a little modest underspending of the kind that the noble Earl mentioned than would be the case if his party were in power, with its NHS policies.Lord Warner
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that the charitable sector makes an important contribution to the capital programmes of the NHS? Would it be possible for the Department of Health to encourage greater partnerships between the charitable sector—the research charities and others—and the NHS?Lord Turnberg
: My Lords, the Department of Health warmly supports more partnerships with the voluntary sector. This morning, I visited a hospice run by the voluntary sector in St Albans. It was this Government who put in place a compact between the Department of Health and the voluntary sector for work in the NHS sector; it was this Government who have produced a Bill on charity reform.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Minister gave some impressive statistics, but is it not a fact that more people have died in hospital as a result of dirty wards than have died as a result of accidents on the roads? What will the Government do about that?Earl Ferrers
: My Lords, the growth of MRSA was most acute between 1993 and 1997.Lord Warner
225: My Lords, the development of these many excellent new hospitals
225Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, since the 1980s—noble Lords will notice that I mention the 1980s—there has been a reduction of about 20 per cent in the number of beds in the NHS. We leave the planning of hospitals in particular localities under the PFI scheme to be worked through by the local health economies to meet their needs. I have no reason to think that that has not been the case. The National Audit Office certainly paid tribute to the highly effective PFI schemes that have been put in place.Lord Warner
: My Lords, given that the noble Lord, Lord Walton, raised the issue of PFI, can the Minister say whether there are adequate break clauses in the PFI contracts for much of this very welcome new hospital building? Can we be certain that those hospitals will not be 30 years out of date, because they are designed for now and five years ago, not for 30 years hence?Baroness Neuberger
: My Lords, the department has put much emphasis on trying to build flexibility into hospital designs. Examples drawn to our attention by the National Audit Office include PFI hospitals that are being delivered on or ahead of time, which contrasts starkly with what happened before. So NHS patients get their new hospitals faster and get the services from them faster.Lord Warner
: My Lords—Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that if—Lord St John of Fawsley
: My Lords, people always demand more public spending on hospitals and so on, but when the Government do that, not because of pressure, but because of their own conviction, people then change their tack and condemn the way in which the money is spent. When that matter is answered satisfactorily, they then jump from one to the other. Does the Minister agree that, regardless of how the Government are doing, the critics will continue to criticise in a manner that is in no way constructive? That is the problem with people in this House.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, there was much truth in my noble friend's comments. He should take some comfort from the fact that my evidence shows that many local people who have seen the results of the investment and the provision of better health services fully support what the Government are doing. We shall see what happens after the forthcoming election is announced.Lord Warner
inter alia: My Lords, we fully support India and Pakistan in their discussions on Kashmir, as part of the composite dialogue process. As a friend of both countries, the United Kingdom Government and, in particular, my right honourable friends the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary have stressed our support for the confidence-building measures and the constructive nature of the exchanges under the composite dialogue. We note the recent inter aliaThe Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that the most appalling human rights violations continue in Kashmir day after day? Has she been told, for instance, that, on the night of 20/21 December last, Indian troops barged in to the home of a 70 year-old woman and repeatedly raped her through the night? Does the Minister know that an Indian army major raped a mother and her 10 year-old daughter in Handawara nearby? Is not 60 years enough for the Kashmiris to suffer like this? Could not more be done to try to end such suffering?Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: My Lords, indeed, I am aware of the reports of human rights violations. The particular incident of rape to which the noble Baroness drew our attention took place in the Handawara area of Indian-administered Kashmir last November. The Indian army conducted a court martial. An army officer was cleared of rape but found guilty of misconduct and I understand that the court martial recommended his dismissal from the army.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
227: My Lords, we, too, express concerns about ongoing human rights violations—and 60 years is a long time—but we particularly welcome the Government's approach to facilitating the composite dialogue. Does the Minister agree that the wishes of the Kashmiri people must be paramount as this process moves forward? In
227Baroness Falkner of Margravine
: My Lords, I acknowledge the points made by the noble Baroness regarding human rights. It is important to note that we regularly raise our concerns on those issues—and not only with the Indian Government because there are issues regarding killings on the Pakistani side, about which President Musharraf himself recently made a statement. So I would not wish your Lordships to think that the problem is all on one side.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, we are all shocked by the abuses and atrocities that my noble friend Lady Knight mentioned, but would the Minister agree, which I am sure she does, that on a broader plane, things are moving forward? Local elections took place yesterday in the Indian part of Kashmir, despite calls for a boycott and some riots. Meetings are taking place this weekend in Bangladesh between the heads of state or foreign ministers of India and Pakistan. There is a kind of peace process and that is a considerable advance on the threat to drop nuclear bombs on each other with which we were dealing only a few months ago. Will the Minister undertake to give maximum support, in so far as we can if we are asked, to this gradual confidence-building process? It seems to me that if we work hard at it, it is an area in which we might get some good news instead of bad.Lord Howell of Guildford
228: Yes, my Lords, I thoroughly endorse what the noble Lord said. Exactly the same points were made by my right honourable friend the Prime Minister when he met the head of the Indian Government in September last year and the head of the Pakistani Government in December last year.228Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, now that a new programme to encourage tourists to return to Kashmir has been announced, what travel advice has been given to UK citizens?Lord Kilclooney
: My Lords, I do not have travel advice readily to hand. I acknowledge that it is an important question and I shall ensure that a copy of the current advice is placed in the Library of your Lordships' House. However, I shall do so with the caveat that travel advice changes regularly. Should incidents arise, it is important to ensure that people who are considering travelling to Kashmir do not rely on advice which may be even only a week old. It is very important to keep checking the travel advice.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
259258257: My Lords, I, too, welcome the opportunity that the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, has given the House of debating this admirable and timely document. I must declare an interest of sorts as chair of the panel of advice to the Anglican Communion Observer at the United Nations.
259258257The Archbishop of Canterbury
"The Security Council so far has been neither very consistent … in dealing with these cases, very often acting too late, too hesitantly or not at all"."genocidal acts or other atrocities, such as large-scale violations of international humanitarian law or large-scale ethnic cleansing … can properly be considered a threat to international security and as such provoke action by the Security Council".263WA 140.Official Report,"There is no general doctrine of humanitarian necessity in international law. Cases have nevertheless arisen (as in northern Iraq in 1991) when, in the light of all the circumstances, a limited use of force was justifiable in support of purposes laid down by the Security Council but without the council's express authorisation when that was the only means to avert an immediate and overwhelming humanitarian catastrophe. Such cases would in the nature of things be exceptional and would depend on an objective assessment of the factual circumstances at the time and on the terms of relevant decisions of the Security Council bearing on the situation in question".—[WA 140.Official Report,262"all States should seek Security Council authorization … is not a time honoured principle … Our analysis suggests quite the opposite"."We all have to recognise—no matter how great our strength—that we must deny ourselves the license to do always as we please".: My Lords, my generation was brought up to believe in the United Nations. The first political speech of any significance that I made was at the time of Suez, when our slogan was, "Law, not war". Against that background, I welcome the enormous work in the report of the high-level panel, and in particular I pay tribute to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, one of its distinguished members, for his work and for today's elucidation."The Security Council so far has been neither very consistent … in dealing with these cases, very often acting too late, too hesitantly or not at all"."genocidal acts or other atrocities, such as large-scale violations of international humanitarian law or large-scale ethnic cleansing … can properly be considered a threat to international security and as such provoke action by the Security Council".263WA 140.Official Report,"There is no general doctrine of humanitarian necessity in international law. Cases have nevertheless arisen (as in northern Iraq in 1991) when, in the light of all the circumstances, a limited use of force was justifiable in support of purposes laid down by the Security Council but without the council's express authorisation when that was the only means to avert an immediate and overwhelming humanitarian catastrophe. Such cases would in the nature of things be exceptional and would depend on an objective assessment of the factual circumstances at the time and on the terms of relevant decisions of the Security Council bearing on the situation in question".—[WA 140.Official Report,262"all States should seek Security Council authorization … is not a time honoured principle … Our analysis suggests quite the opposite"."We all have to recognise—no matter how great our strength—that we must deny ourselves the license to do always as we please".Lord Morris of Aberavon
267266Investing in Development,"International donors, in partnership with national authorities and local civil society organisations, should undertake a major new global initiative to rebuild local and national public health systems throughout the developing world".: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Hannay of Chiswick, for securing this debate, and I congratulate him on the excellent report with which he was involved.267266Investing in Development,"International donors, in partnership with national authorities and local civil society organisations, should undertake a major new global initiative to rebuild local and national public health systems throughout the developing world".Lord Patel
275"a resolution could be written to confine the ICC's jurisdiction to Sudanese suspects and territory and a limited period. The resolution could recommend to the General Assembly that any UN finding for the ICC investigation of Darfur should be voluntary. It could also exempt from surrender to the ICC any multinational forces deployed to Darfur by nations not party to the ICC".Financial Times,274realpolitik: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Hannay and his colleagues deserve our congratulations on the report. If for no other reason, the definition of "terrorism", which is long overdue, is excellent and I hope that it is endorsed by the General Assembly.275"a resolution could be written to confine the ICC's jurisdiction to Sudanese suspects and territory and a limited period. The resolution could recommend to the General Assembly that any UN finding for the ICC investigation of Darfur should be voluntary. It could also exempt from surrender to the ICC any multinational forces deployed to Darfur by nations not party to the ICC".Financial Times,274realpolitikLord Owen
: My Lords, I did not mention that. It was a comment of the noble Lord, Lord Dahrendorf.Lord Owen
: My Lords, we have undertaken extensive negotiations with local authorities and anyone else who wished to express their views to us before reaching this conclusion. The conclusion is that virtually all local authorities will cover their costs but not make a profit out of the licence fees. That is what we undertook to do at the outset.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, of the bands to which I am referring, which cover nearly all sports clubs, in band A, the lowest band, we are proposing an application fee of £100 and a £70 annual charge. In band B, the application fee will be £190 and the annual charge £180. In band A, that means a charge of £4 per member to cover the application fee and £2.80 per member to cover the annual charge.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the majority of sports clubs fall within the two lowest fee bands, as set out in the regulations laid before Parliament on Thursday. 20 January—that is, fee bands of rateable value up to £33,000. The increases across all fee bands were justified on the evidence produced during extensive consultation and research about the costs of the licensing regime. We do not believe that the fees will significantly affect the activities of the clubs involved.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
229: My Lords, I am aware of the orchestrated campaign on this issue. However, I am also aware that the Government are encouraging local sports substantially through £60 million in the community club development programme and through
229Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, on behalf of my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor, I beg to move the Motion standing in his name on the Order Paper.Lord Davies of Oldham
"Whether they were talking about their relationships with their families, or their relationships with services, an abiding message from all the parents in these studies was, that they wanted to feel in control when they were trying to solve their parenting problems …Service professionals need to recognize the change in their role from providers of care to enablers of care, and to recognize parents as part of the team…It is crucial that support services for parents leave parents in control, listen to them and work with them in the design and delivery of services. If they do not their intervention will be resented, and mistrusted, and it will fail".Supporting Parents: Messages from Research"A review of research from over 350 studies…in 1988 found that parents want flexible services which acknowledge that they lead busy and pressured lives. Parents place great importance on being listened to and treated with respect".Guardian312"parents' information meetings at key transition points"."support programmes for fathers as well as mothers",Every Child Matters,"The five desirable outcomes which are listed in the recent Children Act can best be achieved through a Relationship education Programme in every school".311310"The most important finding from the point of view of this review is that parental involvement in the form of 'at-home good parenting' has a significant positive effect on children's achievement and adjustment, even after all other factors shaping attainment have been taken out of the equation".309"The bond between the child and their parents is the most critical influence on a child's life. Parenting has a strong impact on a child's educational development, behaviour, and mental health…In the past, public policy has paid insufficient attention to supporting parents and helping families find solutions for themselves".Every Child Matters"The Government intends to put supporting parents and carers at the heart of its approach to improving children's lives".Every Child Mattersrose to call attention to the role of parents in the welfare of children and to the case for involving parents more in the design and delivery of services for children; and to move for Papers."Whether they were talking about their relationships with their families, or their relationships with services, an abiding message from all the parents in these studies was, that they wanted to feel in control when they were trying to solve their parenting problems …Service professionals need to recognize the change in their role from providers of care to enablers of care, and to recognize parents as part of the team…It is crucial that support services for parents leave parents in control, listen to them and work with them in the design and delivery of services. If they do not their intervention will be resented, and mistrusted, and it will fail".Supporting Parents: Messages from Research"A review of research from over 350 studies…in 1988 found that parents want flexible services which acknowledge that they lead busy and pressured lives. Parents place great importance on being listened to and treated with respect".Guardian312"parents' information meetings at key transition points"."support programmes for fathers as well as mothers",Every Child Matters,"The five desirable outcomes which are listed in the recent Children Act can best be achieved through a Relationship education Programme in every school".311310"The most important finding from the point of view of this review is that parental involvement in the form of 'at-home good parenting' has a significant positive effect on children's achievement and adjustment, even after all other factors shaping attainment have been taken out of the equation".309"The bond between the child and their parents is the most critical influence on a child's life. Parenting has a strong impact on a child's educational development, behaviour, and mental health…In the past, public policy has paid insufficient attention to supporting parents and helping families find solutions for themselves".Every Child Matters"The Government intends to put supporting parents and carers at the heart of its approach to improving children's lives".Every Child MattersLord Northbourne
341: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister and to everyone who has spoken this evening. I shall speak for only about one minute because I can see that the vultures are there waiting for us to go away.341Lord Northbourne
"Darfur remains a catastrophe, and we cannot turn … away from it".Economist278277"Up to 105 civilians are thought to have died in fresh fighting in Sudan's Darfur region … One village was practically destroyed in the violence and more than 9,000 people were displaced. a spokesman told a news conference in Khartoum"."the greatest regret of my presidency".276: My Lords, the whole House is indebted to my noble friend Lord Hannay for the clarity which he showed when he introduced the report, "A more secure world: Our shared responsibility", and for the way in which he opened our debate today."Darfur remains a catastrophe, and we cannot turn … away from it".Economist278277"Up to 105 civilians are thought to have died in fresh fighting in Sudan's Darfur region … One village was practically destroyed in the violence and more than 9,000 people were displaced. a spokesman told a news conference in Khartoum"."the greatest regret of my presidency".276Lord Alton of Liverpool
340Hansard339338Every Child Matters,337336Every Child Matters: My Lords, I am glad that the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, secured this debate for us, because it gives me an opportunity to engage with him, and with the House, hopefully in confidential fashion, with where we are in responding to the question that was explicit in his speech. 340Hansard339338Every Child Matters,337336Every Child MattersThe Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
308307: My Lords, I would like to begin by thanking very warmly all noble Lords who participated in this debate. It has been an excellent debate. I would particularly like to thank the three Front Bench spokesmen who made such thoughtful and prescient contributions. I would like to say a special word of appreciation to the most reverend Primate the Archbishop of Canterbury, who made a magnificent contribution and brought to our debate the moral dimension that it requires.308307Lord Hannay of Chiswick
252251250249An Agenda for Peace,248 rose to call attention to the report to the United Nations by the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, the Millennium Development Goals Review, and to the causes of conflict in Africa; and to move for Papers.252251250249An Agenda for Peace,248Lord Hannay of Chiswick
"the United Nations was not created to take mankind to paradise, but merely to save humanity from hell".ad hoc298297296: My Lords, all noble Lords who have spoken in the debate have expressed warm gratitude to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, and in this case that is more than a formality. We are accustomed to saying such words, but it is perfectly obvious that the noble Lord has made and continues to make a major contribution on these matters, both in his work here and at the United Nations. Frankly, it was a very good day for your Lordships when the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, joined us in this House. I say that even though some flak has flown around during the debate, which has by no means been totally uncritical."the United Nations was not created to take mankind to paradise, but merely to save humanity from hell".ad hoc298297296Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, I congratulate the Government on squaring a number of circles at the same time as establishing the long-term aspiration of moving towards an employment rate of 80 per cent, with all the attendant benefits for the country's prosperity, not least for pensioners. Indeed, this is the key to sustainably rising pensions. Will my noble friend confirm one point; namely, that no disabled people will be financially worse off as a result of the Government's proposals?Lord Lea of Crondall
273"Switzerland is not a country which should be the primary recipient of aid".272: My Lords, I shall begin where the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, began his introduction to this excellent report by pointing out its two main themes—first, security and secondly, economics and poverty—and the connection between the two. I would go further and say that there is a trade-off. In a report on the west Balkans by the European Union Select Committee a couple of years ago, it was very obvious that there was, indeed, a trade-off. Some five billion dollars are spent each year, mainly by European countries, in the west Balkans and some one billion dollars are spent on development. Would it not be nice if they were the other way round? Perhaps it is facile to put it like that, but, in essence, that would be the most desirable solution in a broader context.273"Switzerland is not a country which should be the primary recipient of aid".272Lord Lea of Crondall
"the threats and challenges to international peace and security have changed, as has the distribution of power among members. But the Security Council has been slow to change"."It was created to be not just a representative but a responsible body, one that had the capacity for decisive action"."The task is not to find alternatives to the Security Council as a source of authority but to make the Council work better than It has".283"What is needed today is nothing less than a new consensus between alliances that are frayed, between wealthy nations and poor, and among peoples mired in mistrust across an apparently widening cultural abyss"."The United Nations was never intended to be a utopian exercise. It was meant to be a collective security system that worked".: My Lords, I also wish to congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, not only on instigating this debate but also on his part in the creation of this excellent and well-written report on the strengths and weaknesses of the United Nations, with recommendations for reform—or should I say regeneration?"the threats and challenges to international peace and security have changed, as has the distribution of power among members. But the Security Council has been slow to change"."It was created to be not just a representative but a responsible body, one that had the capacity for decisive action"."The task is not to find alternatives to the Security Council as a source of authority but to make the Council work better than It has".283"What is needed today is nothing less than a new consensus between alliances that are frayed, between wealthy nations and poor, and among peoples mired in mistrust across an apparently widening cultural abyss"."The United Nations was never intended to be a utopian exercise. It was meant to be a collective security system that worked".Lord Cobbold
: My Lords, what work is being done on the interviewing process and the staff carrying out the interviews? In this new approach that is dependent on the interview, the quality of interviewers and their level of knowledge are vital if the system is to work properly. By definition, no two incapacity benefit cases will be the same. Will there be best practice guidelines on the approach to be taken and on when expert groups should be called in from outside to give advice, be they medical or otherwise? No matter how good the intentions, if such a structure and support are not available for interviewers they will miss people and make mistakes.Lord Addington
: My Lords, I refer mostly to the initial interviews at Jobcentres and how help is called in from there. Most help and support is needed at that initial interface.Lord Addington
268ad infinitum: My Lords, I, too, am grateful to my noble friend Lord Hannay for drawing attention to this UN report. For a military man to concentrate more on strategy and organisation to meet specific challenges and threats in the future makes a welcome respite from the nitty-gritty of arguing 268ad infinitumLord Bramall
"even small effects, when experienced by many children, may have broad-scale consequences"."adjustment, particularly aggression and non-compliance, during the toddler, preschool and early primary school years"."a variety of features of care…increased the rate of insecure attachment. These included more than 10 hours of care per week, more than a single child-care arrangement across the first 15 months of life, and lower quality child care".327326: My Lords, I join noble Lords in thanking my noble friend Lord Northbourne for again calling our attention to the role of parents and the welfare of children. I shall concentrate on a matter that he has often raised in the past; that is, the development of children in their earliest years. We are learning more and more about the neurobiology of children and how their relationship with their mother in that first year or so of life can shape the way in which their brains function for the rest of their life. It is crucial that childcare at that time is of the right kind."even small effects, when experienced by many children, may have broad-scale consequences"."adjustment, particularly aggression and non-compliance, during the toddler, preschool and early primary school years"."a variety of features of care…increased the rate of insecure attachment. These included more than 10 hours of care per week, more than a single child-care arrangement across the first 15 months of life, and lower quality child care".327326The Earl of Listowel
254253: My Lords, I am certain that the whole House will want to congratulate and thank the noble Lord, Lord Hannay of Chiswick, not only on the powerful way in which he has put the case to us this afternoon, but also for the very important part he played in the deliberations which have led to such a significant report. The report is important not only for the United Nations, but also for our Government's current highly commendable preoccupations with the tremendous issues regarding Africa.254253Lord Judd
244: My Lords, I welcome my noble friend's repetition of the Statement made in the other place. It is extremely timely, and I have no doubt that the pensions Statement to be made in a couple of months' time will be even timelier. The two Statements will provide a most useful basis on which to advance for the next Labour government who will no doubt be elected, if not early this year, later this year.244Lord Borrie
247: My Lords, I was called out briefly during the exchanges after the Minister repeated the Statement, so I hope that I am in order in coming back and asking a brief question. As an external consequence of the measures, which are to be welcomed, does the Minister welcome the fact that we will now get a much more accurate representation of the real unemployment figures in the future, which will also help her and other
247Lord Dykes
vis-à-vis261ex post,260"A more effective United Nations for the twenty-first century",: My Lords, I express my gratitude, as I am sure other noble Lords will, in following the wise words of the most reverend Primate the Archbishop of Canterbury. I agree strongly with virtually all the points he made. I express my gratitude to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, as well. I am very grateful to him, as I am sure other speakers will be, for launching the debate on this very important report. Even if diplomats, such as the noble Lord and others on the panel who were not diplomats but officials and politicians, do not do Apocalypse, maybe they will be entitled to do Operation Utopia. We have reached the stage when that will be important.vis-à-vis261ex post,260"A more effective United Nations for the twenty-first century",Lord Dykes
291Locksley Hall: My Lords, 50 years ago, I was working in the third room of the United Nations department in the Foreign Office. My first task in that august building was to try to brief the British delegation to the Ninth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on what it should say to a special committee that had been set up to try to define "aggression". I am delighted to read in this report and hear in the debate that the definition of "terrorism" has been more speedily resolved than was that matter.291Locksley HallLord Thomas of Swynnerton
"as boroughs' enforcement profits soar…£300m: what we pay in parking fines every year".Evening Standard: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, on presenting this short Bill. I always enjoy taking part in discussions on legislation by which I am unlikely to be afflicted. The Bill is likely to twang the heart strings of many a motorist and perhaps many a traffic warden."as boroughs' enforcement profits soar…£300m: what we pay in parking fines every year".Evening StandardThe Earl of Mar and Kellie
"The current situation shows how devastating the neglect of sexual and reproductive health can be. The differences in reproductive health—between rich and poor and within and between countries—are larger than in many areas of healthcare … Sexual and reproductive health services should be integrated into a strengthened health system".287"The world cannot afford to let another year go by without investing in these simple and proven strategies"."Expanding access to Sexual and Reproductive Health information and services, including family planning and contraceptive information and services, and close the existing funding gaps for supplies and logistics"."see breathtaking results within three or fewer years".Investing in Development,286A practical plan to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.Investing in Development,: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for giving some of us the opportunity to discuss the millennium development goals. That is particularly timely in the context of their official five-year review later this year by the United Nations and also of the excellent recent publication and presentation to Mr Kofi Annan of the report entitled "The current situation shows how devastating the neglect of sexual and reproductive health can be. The differences in reproductive health—between rich and poor and within and between countries—are larger than in many areas of healthcare … Sexual and reproductive health services should be integrated into a strengthened health system".287"The world cannot afford to let another year go by without investing in these simple and proven strategies"."Expanding access to Sexual and Reproductive Health information and services, including family planning and contraceptive information and services, and close the existing funding gaps for supplies and logistics"."see breathtaking results within three or fewer years".Investing in Development,286A practical plan to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.Investing in Development,Viscount Craigavon
Official Report,"My Lords, police traffic wardens are not paid according to the number of tickets they issue, nor is there any intention that they should be".—[Official Report,"Whether they will take action with the authorities concerned to prevent traffic wardens from receiving remuneration in proportion to the number of tickets issued for offences in public parking places".345Official Report,"Whether employed directly by a local authority or otherwise, parking attendants shall not be remunerated on any basis which relates remuneration to the number of penalty charge notices issued".—[Official Report,: My Lords, I added my name to the list of speakers in the Government Whips' Office yesterday afternoon, in what I hope was legible lettering, but for some reason my name does not appear on today's list. I hope, therefore, that the House will bear with me for five minutes or so.Official Report,"My Lords, police traffic wardens are not paid according to the number of tickets they issue, nor is there any intention that they should be".—[Official Report,"Whether they will take action with the authorities concerned to prevent traffic wardens from receiving remuneration in proportion to the number of tickets issued for offences in public parking places".345Official Report,"Whether employed directly by a local authority or otherwise, parking attendants shall not be remunerated on any basis which relates remuneration to the number of penalty charge notices issued".—[Official Report,Lord Monson
: My Lords, I was about to do so. Allowing motorists to park on yellow lines as long as they are not causing any inconvenience or danger to other road users is undoubtedly an attractive idea, but surely one that is not likely to get far. All that is for a later stage. Meanwhile, I wish the Bill every success.Lord Monson
271realpolitik"work from within to reform it"."undermine confidence in the UN","not reduce the Council to impotence","the Council must be prepared to be much more proactive".270: My Lords, 13 October was the international day for disaster reduction. On that day, a new hoard game called "Riskland" was launched by the UN to help young people to respond to natural disasters. It may have been too late for the tsunami, but it could help many young people at risk in the future. Model United Nations in universities are another example of education. I mention education because it shows how far the UN is prepared to go in its duty of care towards our world that it can create one day for disaster reduction, another for children, another for micro-credit, and so on. But if there is no limit on the extent of our concerns, we must not be surprised if resources will not extend to all of them.271realpolitik"work from within to reform it"."undermine confidence in the UN","not reduce the Council to impotence","the Council must be prepared to be much more proactive".270The Earl of Sandwich
239"classic new Blairism—it sounds tough, it will generate a row, the leftwingers will say it's appalling, but in the real world, it won't help".238: My Lords, from these Benches we also thank the noble Baroness for repeating the Statement from another House. The Statement is meant to be about the five-year strategy of the DWP, which I have been able to read to some extent today. In a sense it is almost like the dog that barks—that is, talking about incapacity benefit—and the dog that did not bark— that is, talking about pensions, which noble Lords might think is a pretty important part of the five-year strategy of the DWP.239"classic new Blairism—it sounds tough, it will generate a row, the leftwingers will say it's appalling, but in the real world, it won't help".238Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
285284: My Lords, I echo the praise given by other noble Lords to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for the report and for his lucid introduction.285284Lord Desai
265"better made, better substantiated and better communicated"."with large-scale life-and-death impact"."Is there a reasonable chance of the military action being successful in meeting the threat in question, with the consequences of action not likely to be worse than the consequences of inaction"?264"We endorse the emerging norm that there is a collective international responsibility to protect, exercisable by the Security Council authorizing military intervention as a last resort, in the event of genocide and other large-scale killing, ethnic cleansing or serious violations of international humanitarian law which sovereign Governments have proved powerless or unwilling to prevent".: My Lords, first, I want to associate myself with those who have congratulated my noble friend Lord Hannay not only on securing this debate but also on his contribution to the report that we are debating. It is a subtle yet clear report that takes us a few steps further in the direction of an international order of law and liberty.265"better made, better substantiated and better communicated"."with large-scale life-and-death impact"."Is there a reasonable chance of the military action being successful in meeting the threat in question, with the consequences of action not likely to be worse than the consequences of inaction"?264"We endorse the emerging norm that there is a collective international responsibility to protect, exercisable by the Security Council authorizing military intervention as a last resort, in the event of genocide and other large-scale killing, ethnic cleansing or serious violations of international humanitarian law which sovereign Governments have proved powerless or unwilling to prevent".Lord Dahrendorf
352351: My Lords, I am encouraged by what the noble Baroness has said, which I thought, as a whole, was very fair. Clearly, if she is proceeding that wise, with that mind, and is intent on producing a set of regulations that embody the kind of principles she has outlined, there is something to hope for.352351Lord Lucas
344343342: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.344343342Lord Lucas
329"Social care, childcare and education have not been thought of as an integrated approach to helping children to do well…Children do not distinguish their need based on which agencies run which services—neither should we"."the evaluations [of them] are so technically weak that it is impossible on the basis of publicly available evidence to describe the scale of impact on pupils' achievement"."We seem to know as much in principle about parental involvement and impact on school achievement as Newton knew about the physics of motion in the 17th century. What we seem to lack [and what he lacked at that stage] is the engineering science to put our knowledge into practice. We need urgently to learn how to apply the knowledge we already have in the field".328"Parenting is the most important influence on children and young people's outcomes".Every Child Matters: The Next Steps,"Parents are a child's first and most enduring teacher".Excellence in Schools: My Lords, I join in the thanks to my noble friend Lord Northbourne for introducing this debate. Such well researched contributions serve this House well. It will be no surprise to noble Lords that I wish to concentrate my remarks on the parental contribution to education. I know that the Government recognised its importance in their first year in the document, 329"Social care, childcare and education have not been thought of as an integrated approach to helping children to do well…Children do not distinguish their need based on which agencies run which services—neither should we"."the evaluations [of them] are so technically weak that it is impossible on the basis of publicly available evidence to describe the scale of impact on pupils' achievement"."We seem to know as much in principle about parental involvement and impact on school achievement as Newton knew about the physics of motion in the 17th century. What we seem to lack [and what he lacked at that stage] is the engineering science to put our knowledge into practice. We need urgently to learn how to apply the knowledge we already have in the field".328"Parenting is the most important influence on children and young people's outcomes".Every Child Matters: The Next Steps,"Parents are a child's first and most enduring teacher".Excellence in SchoolsLord Dearing
242: My Lords, from my experience of the communities I know best, the New Deal has been very successful in beginning to reach out to the large number of economically inactive people in the communities that
242Lord Rowlands
237"The current IB system is anomalous".déjà vu."Improved arrangements for state pension deferral will mean that a typical person who delays taking their state pension for 5 years could receive a lump sum payment of between £20,000 and £30,000, or an increase of 50 per cent to their weekly pension for the rest of their life".: My Lords, I thank the Minister for repeating the Statement made in another place. I congratulate her on her stamina in reading out such an extremely long document, loaded as it is with highly selective statistics. An important debate is to follow. so I shall try to be as brief as I can.237"The current IB system is anomalous".déjà vu."Improved arrangements for state pension deferral will mean that a typical person who delays taking their state pension for 5 years could receive a lump sum payment of between £20,000 and £30,000, or an increase of 50 per cent to their weekly pension for the rest of their life".Lord Higgins
: My Lords, the Minister is aware that sports clubs and organisations were opposed to the original scale of licensing fees set out in the consultation. However, the new charges have caused outrage among those same organisations.Lord Clement-Jones
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Clement-Jones
288: My Lords, 1, too, express my appreciation to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for this debate and the valuable report from the high-level panel. Like other noble Lords, I shall concentrate on the millennium development goals, particularly one part of them. I declare an interest as the director of the International Labour Organisation for the United Kingdom and Ireland and a member of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalisation. It is on that experience that I base my contribution today.288Lord Brett
294293292: My Lords, this has been an excellent debate. I would very much like to thank the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, whom I have heard speak on several occasions in the past few weeks about this report, and from whom I hope to hear more. Earlier today, he said that the average age of members of the
294293292Lord Wallace of Saltaire
295: My Lords, I apologise if I made a mistake. However, I did refer to the noble Lord, Lord Dahrendorf.295Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords, will the Minister go further and give the per capita costs for clubs of the increased costs and the licensing? Will he also explain why the fees have to be raised? If they are seen to be punitive for sports clubs, is there an opportunity to look at them again in the future within the guidelines of the Licensing Act?Baroness Billingham
350Highway Code"significant inconvenience to other road users…a danger to other road users, including pedestrians".349348: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, has introduced his Bill for Second Reading in a most informative, entertaining and measured manner. It concerns a group of men and women who are often vilified in the media, but who nevertheless do an important job—I am not talking about ourselves—which the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, has acknowledged. Often they do it in difficult circumstances and sometimes at the risk of physical harm.350Highway Code"significant inconvenience to other road users…a danger to other road users, including pedestrians".349348Baroness Crawley
"Developed states have particular responsibilities in peacekeeping areas and should do more to transfer their existing force capacities into suitable contingents for peace operations".256"Soldiers without rifles or with rifles but no helmets—soldiers who had no one who could speak the mission language, who lacked common operating procedures, had differing interpretations of the key elements of command and control, and of the mission rule of engagement, and who might have differing expectations about mission requirements for the use of force"."a 10-year process of sustained capacity building support within the African Union strategic framework"."The EU decision to establish high readiness, self-sufficient battalions that can reinforce UN missions",255"One serious concern should be the under-pricing of oil and the over-pricing of humanitarian goods which both posed a threat to sanctions".: My Lords, I apologise deeply to the House, and particularly to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for having been unintentionally late. I miscalculated my powers of speed. I should also explain that this is a Back-Bench speech. I did not expect to be where I am."Developed states have particular responsibilities in peacekeeping areas and should do more to transfer their existing force capacities into suitable contingents for peace operations".256"Soldiers without rifles or with rifles but no helmets—soldiers who had no one who could speak the mission language, who lacked common operating procedures, had differing interpretations of the key elements of command and control, and of the mission rule of engagement, and who might have differing expectations about mission requirements for the use of force"."a 10-year process of sustained capacity building support within the African Union strategic framework"."The EU decision to establish high readiness, self-sufficient battalions that can reinforce UN missions",255"One serious concern should be the under-pricing of oil and the over-pricing of humanitarian goods which both posed a threat to sanctions".Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, how many people are covered by the five-year strategy? It seems to deal solely with people on incapacity benefit and lone parents. The noble Baroness has said that there will be another pensions element, but, as the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, said, that really is the tail wagging the dog. If she could answer that, I would have some idea of the numbers involved.Baroness O'Cathain
314313"Child-centred, outcome-led vision…for all children, young people and their families. This must be informed by the views of local children, young people and their families".Every Child Matters,: My Lords, I must begin with an apology. I have been caught up by the business of the House and its various timing alterations, and have another commitment in another part of the House. I shall therefore miss some speeches, but will be back as soon as I can.314313"Child-centred, outcome-led vision…for all children, young people and their families. This must be informed by the views of local children, young people and their families".Every Child Matters,Baroness Massey of Darwen
346: My Lords, I am very sorry to interrupt the noble Lord. I am sorry that he was left off
346Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, before we start the next debate I advise the House that Back-Bench speeches are limited to seven rather than six minutes.Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, can the noble Baroness tell me—the rest of the House may be interested to know—what proportion of people on incapacity benefit she feels could work, whether or not they say that they could, and what proportion of those people she hopes that this measure may catch? All over the country, there are people who see neighbours on incapacity benefit and not working when they themselves are hard-working. They feel that it is unfair that those people can continue on benefit, very likely having their rent paid for them. That seems very unfair. It will be very interesting to know what proportion she is talking about, because this is a very important measure.Baroness Carnegy of Lour
306305304303302301300299: My Lords, I, too, am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for initiating the debate. As your Lordships would expect of a first class diplomat, he gets top marks for his timing as the international community enters a new phase in the debate on reform of the United Nations.306305304303302301300299Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
318317: My Lords, I, too, congratulate my noble friend Lord Northbourne on securing this important debate. He has spent a considerable part of his life championing the vital role of parents and we owe him a great debt.318317Baroness Howe of Idlicote
290289: My Lords, in a probable general election year, it is inevitable that home affairs will tend to take priority both in the other place and in general public debate. Your Lordships' House, therefore, has an important role to play in raising its eyes and thoughts to the wider international horizon. I add my thanks to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for giving us the opportunity to consider and discuss this topical report.290289Baroness Hooper
280279realpolitik: My Lords, we should be grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, for leading several debates on the report so energetically here and elsewhere. It needs to reach a wide audience.280279realpolitikBaroness Whitaker
"a traffic warden or parking attendant".: My Lords, my contribution to the Bill will be limited. First, it is not in my portfolio. I am helpfully sitting here because it is rather late. I also feel an attack coming on from behind about Kensington and Chelsea."a traffic warden or parking attendant".Baroness Hanham
335Choosing to be Different—Women, Work and the Family,334Every Child Matters333: My Lords, I join other noble Lords in thanking the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, for instigating this extremely important debate. As the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, has said, there have been some excellent contributions, which have been as wide-ranging across children's affairs as children have interests.335Choosing to be Different—Women, Work and the Family,334Every Child Matters333Baroness Hanham
332331Guardian330Every Child Matters: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, and congratulate him on introducing this important debate, which has been both interesting and very wide-ranging. It has demonstrated the wide range of interests and expertise around the House.332331Guardian330Every Child MattersBaroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I seek from the Minister a reassurance that I have sought from her on many occasions, both when she was in opposition and since she has been in government. It relates to those who suffer from fluctuating symptoms of illness. One day they can look and perhaps feel quite well while on another they may feel dreadfully ill. The noble Baroness mentioned a formal medical examination. Perhaps she can convey to the doctors at the Department for Work and Pensions, as I have tried for many years to do, that such people do not suffer from psycho-social behavioural problems. The literature increasingly shows that they suffer from real illnesses, the cause of which we do not know. I am referring to sufferers of ME, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia and even Gulf War syndrome and organophosphate poisoning.The Countess of Mar
"Nearly two-thirds of parents rated the events as 'very helpful'. Nine out of ten parents said that they would recommend the events. The greatest impact was amongst those often described as 'hard-to-reach', e.g. minority ethnic groups and those on low incomes. Parents said that such events increased their: knowledge and awareness of family support services; knowledge of child development issues in general; willingness and readiness to access services; confidence in themselves as parents".316"children in the PEEP made significantly greater progress in their learning than those in the comparison group, in areas of vocabulary, language comprehension, understanding about books and print, and number concept; in addition, the PEEP children had higher self-esteem in the areas of their feelings about their cognitive and physical competence as well as having higher self-esteem than comparable children whose parents did not take part in the project; the long term effects of PEEP are still unknown"."Irrespective of geography, education, economics, politics or culture, the needs of families remain the same. Parents, wherever they are, can feel isolated, overwhelmed, exhausted, unwell and inadequate. The power of friendship, of providing one close relationship and a network of friends, is, we are told by social psychologist, Michael Argyle, the best foundation for happiness".315Every Child Matters: My Lords, I add my thanks to the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, for initiating this important debate. It is about time that we looked back at some of those other aspects of "Nearly two-thirds of parents rated the events as 'very helpful'. Nine out of ten parents said that they would recommend the events. The greatest impact was amongst those often described as 'hard-to-reach', e.g. minority ethnic groups and those on low incomes. Parents said that such events increased their: knowledge and awareness of family support services; knowledge of child development issues in general; willingness and readiness to access services; confidence in themselves as parents".316"children in the PEEP made significantly greater progress in their learning than those in the comparison group, in areas of vocabulary, language comprehension, understanding about books and print, and number concept; in addition, the PEEP children had higher self-esteem in the areas of their feelings about their cognitive and physical competence as well as having higher self-esteem than comparable children whose parents did not take part in the project; the long term effects of PEEP are still unknown"."Irrespective of geography, education, economics, politics or culture, the needs of families remain the same. Parents, wherever they are, can feel isolated, overwhelmed, exhausted, unwell and inadequate. The power of friendship, of providing one close relationship and a network of friends, is, we are told by social psychologist, Michael Argyle, the best foundation for happiness".315Every Child MattersBaroness Sharp of Guildford
Have Your Soy323322Just One Click"It is generally agreed that the impact of parenting is felt throughout one's lifetime and for succeeding generations. No other form of human interaction can boast such power".: My Lords, first I declare an interest as a trustee of Barnardo's, both in my own region and nationally. I also take the opportunity to thank the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, for raising what I consider to be one of the most important things we can discuss in the House—how parents can be involved with their children and with their children's lives in school and so on.Have Your Soy323322Just One Click"It is generally agreed that the impact of parenting is felt throughout one's lifetime and for succeeding generations. No other form of human interaction can boast such power".Baroness Blood
246: My Lords, we think that we may need to train to 1,000 additional advisers for rolling out Pathways to Work. Some 2.7 million people are on incapacity benefit. About 900,000 lone parents are on benefit. We have not compiled a specific section on pensions, so the 11 million or so pensioners in the country will be covered subsequently by a separate document. Our strategies for JSA claimants are clearly working. We have not addressed that issue particularly.246Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: Yes, my Lords. I am delighted that my noble friend shares with me an aspiration for 80 per cent employment, which means bringing into the labour market people who have been economically inactive, whether as lone parents or as people suffering from a disability. To use an overworked phrase, it is a very challenging target, but if we can meet it, we would not only mainstream those people in ways that are decent but would do a huge amount towards lifting them out of poverty during their working life and prevent them passporting poverty into their retirement. The best protection against poverty in old age is a decent job when you are of working age. In that sense, the 80 per cent target will not only reduce inequalities and poverty but will help to mainstream people in ways that all of us would want for ourselves.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I am not sure about the connection to the Freedom of Information Act. I am sure that there is a twist there that, in my innocence, I am missing.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I am certainly happy again to give the noble Countess the reassurance that she seeks. However, I can go further than she did and say that the fact that an illness is not reflected in physical biology does not mean that those affected by it are not really sick. I regard mental illness as real as physical illness. For example, when I was dealing with war pensions. we were unable always to identify the physical triggers for Gulf War syndrome, but we recognised the legitimacy of the symptoms and awarded the war pensions accordingly.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, the noble Lord's two questions related to financial support and appeals. As I understand it, at the moment there is a success rate of about 50 per cent for appeals on personal capability assessments and of about 50 to 60 per cent on DLA assessments and AA, which is a parallel benefit. Appeals of PCAs represent about 10 per cent, and DLA appeals about 4.8 per cent, of the total caseload.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, we have invested hugely in training. If there is any appeal against the original Jobcentre Plus determination—in other words, that people should stay on JSA—it will be rechecked by a senior decision-maker in that department and the case will then go through for medical evidence. If the noble Lord has any evidence that the process is unsatisfactory, I would be glad to have it.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I need the noble Lord to help me. When he talks about interviews, does he mean those by Jobcentre Plus staff or those by doctors carrying out personal capability assessments?Baroness Hollis of Heigham
243: My Lords, there are 2.7 million people on incapacity benefit. We know that 1 million of them say that they want to work. The noble Baroness is right in certain aspects of what she says. I know that the degree of incapacity is no indicator of degree of ability or willingness to work. For example, someone who is blind, wheelchair-bound, paraplegic or whatever may be committed to holding down a job and give good service. Someone else with what we might regard as relatively minor problems—minor backache, and such like—may feel themselves unable to work.243Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, my noble friend is exactly right. I should have mentioned the integration of the old benefit offices with the employment offices and, as a result, transforming the culture so that everyone who wants to should have the opportunity to work. My noble friend is right: the personal adviser structure that we introduced in Jobcentre Plus has transformed opportunities, especially for disabled people. lone parents and others who have always been marginal to the labour market. They are building on their success.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
241240: My Lords, I am at some disadvantage. I have only six minutes to reply to the two Front Benches. So I apologise if I do not have time to answer all the comments made. One comment from both noble Lords, which I think was exactly right, was that the issue facing the country is not unemployment; it is economic inactivity. Those who would like to be part of the labour market, but who are not in the labour market, are IB claimants on the one hand and primarily lone parents on the other.241240Baroness Hollis of Heigham
236235234233232Opportunity and security throughout life.: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. The Statement is as follows:236235234233232Opportunity and security throughout life.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
: My Lords, will the Minister inform the House exactly what we are talking about? What was the original figure and what is the increased figure?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
282281: My Lords, I add my congratulations to the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, on securing this wide-ranging debate and for his role in producing the UN report. It highlights the importance of interconnectedness in development—in particular, the interconnection between extreme poverty and terrorism—and declared that a secure future for us all depends on alleviating such poverty. That is why the whole world has a collective responsibility to make sure that the pillars of development—security, equity and human rights—support all people's lives.282281Baroness Greengross
"distort the pattern of care which is arguably not the province of government".325"the Government does not want to disturb family relationships".324: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, on this very timely debate. I want to concentrate on three interrelated themes about parenting: first, encouraging healthy lifestyles; secondly, the role of grandparents and wider kin; and, thirdly, Sure Start."distort the pattern of care which is arguably not the province of government".325"the Government does not want to disturb family relationships".324Baroness Greengross
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
321"The test of the morality of a society is what it does for its children".320Every Child Matters: Next Steps"The Government would like to develop more and better universal services, open to all families as and when they need them".319Every Child Matters,: My Lords, I am also grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, who has once again called our attention to that most central element of our society: the role of parents in the welfare of children. It should be a truism that the role of parents is indivisible from children's welfare and therefore at the heart of all services for them. The reason that is such an important subject for debate today is because the role of parents is not apparent in the Government's recent plans for devising and delivering children's services.321"The test of the morality of a society is what it does for its children".320Every Child Matters: Next Steps"The Government would like to develop more and better universal services, open to all families as and when they need them".319Every Child Matters,Baroness Linklater of Butterstone
: My Lords, would it not be a mistake for the Government to support that agreement until the opinion of the British people has been revealed by the holding of the referendum on the European Union which the Government are committed to hold?Lord Renton
"We are currently compiling the evidence base for new enforceable rights in these areas and will shortly be conducting a full assessment of the costs and benefits. We will also be developing the necessary legislative provisions to give effect to this vision".: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Ashley named me as the person who suggested that the amendment, if accepted, should be treated as a declaratory clause rather than remaining in its previous place in the Bill, which we discussed in Grand Committee. We have received some briefing from the Disability Rights Commission on the issue. Obviously it agrees with the principle, but states that:
"We are currently compiling the evidence base for new enforceable rights in these areas and will shortly be conducting a full assessment of the costs and benefits. We will also be developing the necessary legislative provisions to give effect to this vision".Lord Carter
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, I do not think that she mentioned the proposal on disability issues in the five-year plan report which was discussed yesterday. It was proposed that an interdepartmental office be set up under the leadership of the DWP which would ensure that all departments involved in disability issues were brought together into one office and one committee. Presumably it will work within the DWP but have other departments working with it. I thought that we should have done this when I was in government, but I am delighted that we doing are it now.Lord Carter
"we are satisfied that the new public sector duty provides the firmest foundation for making progress on this serious problem"."The DRC believes that the public sector duty will provide us with the necessary instrument with which to tackle this issue. We are currently consulting on a draft Code of Practice explaining the requirements of the duty, and think this is an excellent example which we would certainly want to include".373: My Lords, I was tempted to support this amendment until I did some research on the matter. Before referring to that, perhaps I may say how
"we are satisfied that the new public sector duty provides the firmest foundation for making progress on this serious problem"."The DRC believes that the public sector duty will provide us with the necessary instrument with which to tackle this issue. We are currently consulting on a draft Code of Practice explaining the requirements of the duty, and think this is an excellent example which we would certainly want to include".373Lord Carter
: My Lords, like other noble Lords, I pay tribute to Sir Peter Large. When I was the Opposition spokesman on disability for some 10 years, I worked extremely closely with him and much more recently, as chairman of the Joint Committee, I had intended to visit Sir Peter Large, accompanied by my honourable friend Tom Clarke, who is a member of the committee, to receive his evidence because he was too unwell to come to London. In fact, on the day on which we had intended to visit him, he was again unwell and we never did make the visit. Much of what has happened in the disability area since the 1990s is down to the spade work carried out by Sir Peter Large over many years.Lord Carter
"the need to promote civic participation of disabled people".: My Lords, Amendments Nos. 11 and 13 meet exactly the arguments that were produced in Grand Committee. I am delighted not to move Amendment No. 10 and I shall certainly not move Amendment No. 12. Amendment No. 13 improves on the drafting of Amendment No. 12, in the second paragraph of which we seek to establish,
"the need to promote civic participation of disabled people".Lord Carter
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, is correct in saying that in the Joint Committee we debated extensively whether there should be a list of public authorities or the general authority as set out in the Bill. On balance, we came down in favour of the list, but the argument was a fine one.Lord Carter
416: My Lords, I wish to add a few words but I shall be extremely brief. The noble Lord, Lord Higgins, summed up my position exactly, which is that if the 2020 date is adopted—which is now the Government's declared intention, so they should have
416Lord Carter
"Rail commencement plus revised Rail Vehicle Accessibility Regulations".: My Lords, will my noble friend answer a simple question? At the back of the Government's response to the Joint Committee report is set out a provisional implementation timetable of the main provisions in the Bill. For June 2006 it states:
"Rail commencement plus revised Rail Vehicle Accessibility Regulations".Lord Carter
: My Lords, I have two brief points. The first is on Amendment No. 21. Under its paragraph (b), there are seven classes of dates for various sorts of rail vehicles. I am not a train buff and would not pretend to know what all those classes of vehicle were. However, I have a question about the total that the noble Lord, Lord Addington, or perhaps the Minister, may be able to answer. The last class will be regulated by 31 December 2014. It would be interesting to know how many vehicles would be regulated in total by 2014, and how many would be left to be regulated after 2014 if we accepted 2020. If that information were available, it would be helpful.Lord Carter
: My Lords, the Minister should address that question to the noble Lord, Lord Addington, who actually tabled the amendment. I was hoping that he might have the figures.Lord Carter
428Page 13, line 16, leave out subsections (3) and (4). of Oldham moved Amendment No. 22:
428Page 13, line 16, leave out subsections (3) and (4).Lord Davies
: My Lords, this is extremely welcome and reflects on the recommendation of the Deregulated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee. It is as well that the Government have removed Clause 6(4) which gives the power to revoke by Order in Council a statutory instrument which had gone through Parliament. If that is not Henry VIII behaviour it is certainly Henry VII and a half.Lord Carter
436: My Lords, this amendment is in line with the recommendations of the Joint Committee. It recommended that the Government should consult and produce a code of practice on volunteers. The committee further recommended that the full Bill
436Lord Carter
"The Secretary of State may make regulations",441: My Lords, the Joint Committee recommended that the full Bill should include a specific provision prohibiting control of premises or unreasonably withholding consent for the making of reasonable adjustment to communal areas. In Grand Committee I pointed out that the response of the Government seemed to be in two parts. First, they said that they were not convinced that tenants should be able to make adjustments to the common parts over which they have only limited rights, or that a controller of the premises should be required to allow a tenant to make changes to the common parts. That sounded as if the Government were opposed in principle. They then went on about the difficulty of doing it, saying that it would be complex and so on.
"The Secretary of State may make regulations",441Lord Carter
: My Lords, this was another recommendation of the Joint Committee. I shall not repeat all that I said in Grand Committee about it and the Government's response. It reflects a suggestion that a number of us made in Grand Committee that it might be possible to transport into this Bill the provisions of the 1927 Act to provide an answer to the problem.Lord Carter
Lord Mitchell.454453fait accompli"the FCO always ensures there is a clear lead and clear roles and responsibilities for the negotiating team".452Science and Treaties,451rose to move, That this House takes note of the report of the Science and Technology Committee on Science and Treaties (3rd Report, Session 2003–04, HL Paper 110).Lord Mitchell.454453fait accompli"the FCO always ensures there is a clear lead and clear roles and responsibilities for the negotiating team".452Science and Treaties,451Lord Mitchell
457"Without global participation in emission curbs, the shared atmosphere will essentially remain a dump with no gate or tipping fees for customers rejecting the protocol".Herald Tribune"The danger zone is not something in the future—we are in it now".456Nature,"Our problems are man made—therefore they can be solved by man".: My Lords, it most certainly has been a great pleasure for me to serve on the Science and Technology Committee on Science and Treaties. It was skilfully chaired by the noble Lord, Lord Mitchell, and assisted as usual by the highly competent and versatile secretariat. My only regret about service on the sub-committee is that I was not able to go with the team to Antarctica and see the glories of that part of the world which were so ably described by the noble Lord, Lord Mitchell.457"Without global participation in emission curbs, the shared atmosphere will essentially remain a dump with no gate or tipping fees for customers rejecting the protocol".Herald Tribune"The danger zone is not something in the future—we are in it now".456Nature,"Our problems are man made—therefore they can be solved by man".Lord Soulsby of Swaffham Prior
460Ending the Energy Stalemate459cathedra458: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Mitchell, first, for agreeing to take on the chairmanship of this committee. His quite excessive modesty prevented his accepting straight away, but I am delighted that in the end he succumbed. He did an excellent job and it was a pleasure to serve on the committee chaired by him. I also congratulate him on his splendid speech.460Ending the Energy Stalemate459cathedra458Lord Oxburgh
463462Nature,461: My Lords, I welcome the debate and the government response. The report underlines the importance of treaties and international collaboration, but it concludes that more could be done by the Government, by the scientific community, by non-governmental organisations and by the public to work together in this field.463462Nature,461Lord Hunt of Chesterton
Guidelines 2000466465464: My Lords, I pay tribute to our chairman, the noble Lord, Lord Mitchell, for his leadership; our special adviser, Phillipe Sands; our two Clerks, Rebecca Neal and Michael Collon; our scientific assistant and all our staff for their hard work to help us produce this report. I also thank the British Antarctic Survey for giving my colleagues and me the opportunity to gain an insight into the working of a treaty in practice and the importance of the Antarctic Treaty in particular.Guidelines 2000466465464Baroness Walmsley
469Oxford English Dictionary468467: My Lords, I share with the noble Baroness, Lady Symons of Vernham Dean, a rather negative qualification for taking part in this debate; namely, that neither of us is a member of the committee.469Oxford English Dictionary468467Lord Dixon-Smith
476475474473472471470: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lord Mitchell for opening the debate. Through him, I thank all members of his committee for their very valuable report. In the course of the debate, your Lordships have drawn attention to a variety of concerns about issues covered in the report. I shall pick out what seemed to be the four central matters of concern. They were: the science attachés or offices in our missions abroad; the environment, particularly the Kyoto Protocol; interdepartmental co-ordination; and the involvement of Parliament in scrutinising draft treaties.476475474473472471470Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I knew, beforehand, that this was going to be a good debate, and so it has turned out. I thank all noble Lords for their input, their expertise and their wisdom. I think every speech has centred on the subject of global warming. Look at every newspaper—it is a key headline issue, and that will continue. It is the absolute topic of our time.Lord Mitchell
387: My Lords, again I congratulate the noble Baroness on her presentation of the case for the amendment. Like her and, I am sure, like very many others on both sides of both Houses of Parliament, I mourn the passing of Sir Peter Large. It was my great good fortune to have his friendship—ever closer as the years went by—from very soon after I entered Parliament over 40 years ago. I paid tribute to him in Committee, on 13 January, when noting that the source of the amendment moved there was Sir Peter. He was a man of dauntless courage, absolute integrity and excelling humanity, whose passing is an immense loss to the whole disability movement.387Lord Morris of Manchester
: My Lords, the Minister's comments about neighbourhood watch are welcome, but does she recognise that in many areas there is a plethora of people tripping over each other in the streets? We have community beat managers, community support officers, the local branch of the community safety partnership, neighbourhood wardens funded under the Neighbourhood Renewal Fund, and we are about to get neighbourhood management staff funded under the housing market renewal pathfinder. We are awash with these people. Does the Minister recognise that when the funding for all the trendy schemes is being cut in the future, or they are being closed down altogether, the tried and trusted, reliable neighbourhood watch, organised by local volunteers, will be there to pick up the pieces and keep things going?Lord Greaves
: My Lords, perhaps I may add a personal note. I have a daughter with Down's syndrome, aged 53, who now is totally incapacitated and has to be hoisted literally out of bed into an armchair to feed and so on. She has always to be lifted or hoisted. Therefore, I fully support the amendments. Unfortunately, my daughter is a frequent visitor to hospital. The one that she attends is very good in this respect but I know many others that fall short of those standards.Lord Rix
: My Lords, like the noble Lord, Lord Carter, I warmly welcome the government amendments. They supersede our amendments which were debated in Grand Committee. As president of Mencap, I am particularly pleased to see our more than four years of campaigning on the issue of bullying and harassment, particularly of people with a learning disability, brought to a successful conclusion. Once again I take pleasure in thanking the Minister for her sympathetic understanding of the problems that face disabled people. Perhaps I may ask just one favour. Would she be kind enough to write to me giving me some idea about the implementation, the codes of practice and the role of the DRC in these matters? But for the moment, I shall shut up, sit down and once more say thank you.Lord Rix
: My Lords, I assure the noble Lord that they are fairly relaxed about the issue at the other end.Lord Davies of Oldham
420: My Lords, I am going to indicate that we have some flexibility with regard to the regulations. We want to engage in a discussion on that and, indeed, I am tempted not to tread on the ground of the forthcoming amendment. I want to demonstrate to the House how open we are, but there is a danger that if I make that speech now, it would be entirely inappropriate. If my noble friend exercises a little patience, I shall be able to reassure him on his point.420Lord Davies of Oldham
418417: My Lords. I have very limited experience of skinning cats and therefore I shall not follow the noble Lord too far in that analogy, not least because I hope that I shall be able to persuade him that the strategy that we are adopting makes sense. After all, we spent considerable time discussing this issue in Committee, which has resulted in brief speeches being made today, for which I am grateful. I recognise the strong sentiments behind those speeches. I shall try to keep my remarks to the minimum but, as the noble Lord indicated, this is an issue of considerable importance.418417Lord Davies of Oldham
419: My Lords, the date will be set out in the regulations which, so far as the industry is concerned, will have the same effect. My noble friend will recognise that we will be working towards a date that is some distance away—15 years ahead—which gives us time to develop the regulations and put them in place. We have done that for the coach industry. We intend to tackle the issues regarding that industry in regulations.419Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I sought to make clear that the local authority fits into the same category as all the others. It is not a question of who operates the vehicle. It is a question of the specifications of the vehicle. As for examining the issue with regard to vehicles with fewer than 22 seats, we could prescribe for that in the regulations in due course and make requirements for those vehicles. I discussed that a moment ago with the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit. We would have the powers to do that, but at this stage we are identifying public service vehicles with 22 seats or more. That is the category that we are dealing with.Lord Davies of Oldham
412: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for his keen interest in this issue, which is important. I am also grateful for the way in which he moved the amendment. I shall try to respond in the same spirit. The amendment has some technical deficiencies, but I do not want to debate those at this stage. We are looking at the real issues that concern school buses and I will address my remarks to those. School buses are already required to comply with the relevant accessibility regulations under the DDA when they are operated as public service vehicles. The question of who operates them is immaterial.412Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the noble Lord will recognise why a concept of size is related to this. If one must make provision for the disabled in such a way that the number of seats is reduced, the impact on the service and the vehicle will be different according to whether the vehicle has 22 or more seats, and very different indeed if it is a minibus. If it is one as small as an eight-seater, you could easily halve the capacity and make the concept somewhat unrealistic. Every figure is arbitrary, but we have a figure of 22 seats to take account of that.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the noble Lord is pressing the issue further than I can go. That is a detail on the way in which the parents would draw in the resources to make the charter impossible. If they are charging students on the bus and the students are obliged to pay, there is no question. I hear what the noble Lord is saying that there may be other arrangements that I have not addressed so far. I will write to him about that fairly narrow and technical point and make sure that he is fully apprised of the situation before Third Reading.Lord Davies of Oldham
433: My Lords, road safety would certainly be at the forefront of any proposals to adjust the roads. I do not fully understand the nature of the difficulty described by the noble Lord. You
433Lord Davies of Oldham
426: My Lords, I am sorry. In the course of the debate I have perhaps strayed to show how
426Lord Davies of Oldham
432: My Lords, we are sympathetic to the concerns that underlie the amendment, but we recognise that it is a genuine attempt to deal with a problem that is not readily and easily confronted.432Lord Davies of Oldham
427: My Lords, the noble Lord will recognise that we have appreciated the concerns of noble Lords on these issues both in Committee and today. We are eager to be responsive and flexible. We recognise that points are being made but we cannot
427Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I welcome the noble Lord, Lord Higgins, in his anticipatory mode. I also welcome his support for the way in which we intend to go about this matter. We recognise that there are unresolved issues and we need further discussions on where the division occurs between the exemption orders which require affirmative resolution and those which require negative resolution. However, the amendment ensures that the procedure is in place, as was the undertaking we gave in Committee. I hope that that, together with the annual report, goes a considerable way towards allaying the concerns expressed in Committee. I hope also that we will be able to take up the opportunity of meeting again before Third Reading in order that amendments which the Government intend to table to consolidate these issues receive the full support of the House.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is a fair point. My noble friend is right. The noble Lord, Lord Addington, wants to draw on this experience. We shall support him when he recognises the difficulties with this issue. There does need to be some flexibility because projects can slip and if things are too rigid, effectively the rail vehicles are taken out of service and the timetable is wrecked, which no one wants.Lord Davies of Oldham
425: My Lords, I imagine that the whole House hopes that the terminal date for implementation of this legislation precedes the terminal date to which the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, referred. Early in his remarks, he indicated that some matters are being dealt with now and, of course, they are. New build is directed by the requirements to meet the specifications that will be imposed on the industry.425Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the answer to the noble Lord is straightforward. We are talking about each individual rail vehicle. We intend that each vehicle should offer access to disabled passengers. If not, the danger is that a train could be composed of a dozen carriages, none of which complies. We are not in a position to estimate the provision for disabled people who may want to avail themselves of the service offered by particular lines or individual services. However, we will guarantee that every disabled person seeking access to a carriage will find that it provides that opportunity. It will also have a toilet appropriate to accommodating their needs.Lord Davies of Oldham
385: My Lords, I am sorry that the noble Lord remains puzzled, and I hope to be able to resolve the issue in a way in which I was obviously not successful in Grand Committee. However, we have taken careful note of the discussion on that occasion, which helped to clarify our minds on how we tackle the issue.385Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, with the leave of the House, at a convenient point around 1.30 p.m., my noble friend Lady Symons of Vernham Dean will repeat a Statement, which is being made in another place, on proposals for the EU in 2005.Lord Davies of Oldham
355: My Lords, Zimbabwe is clearly important, but we should not exaggerate its importance in relation to the whole of Africa. The commitment of the G8, under the chairmanship of my right honourable friend the Prime Minister, is to focus on the whole continent of Africa, which has many problems—and we have a strategy for beginning to tackle some of them effectively. The importance of
355Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the Chancellor set out his priorities for the February G7 Finance Ministers' meeting in his recent speech at the DfID/ United Nations Development Programme seminar, "Words into Action 2005", held on 26 January. In that speech he highlighted the responsibilities of both developed and developing countries to meet the challenges of Africa, especially in the fight against corruption. The focus for the agenda will be on tackling some of the key issues affecting Africa: aid, trade, debt, health and education.Lord Davies of Oldham
354: My Lords, of course I share with the noble Lord the anxiety about what he defined as the catastrophe of Zimbabwe. He will recognise that the G7 Finance Ministers are meeting to consider overwhelmingly the economic issues of Africa and the major project of dealing with the whole of Africa, of which Zimbabwe is not typical, but presents a particular challenge that the noble Lord has identified. He referred to health; we all recognise that HIV/AIDS is a real issue for the whole of the continent. However, the main objective for the Finance Ministers is to concentrate on those broad issues which cover the whole of Africa in a positive way and it would not,
354Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is a constructive suggestion and the noble Lord will recognise that world organisations, particularly the International Monetary Fund, are looking carefully at the catastrophic development of the Zimbabwean economy and its wider impact. I assure him that the issue that he wishes to be addressed will be subject to real interest among the Finance Ministers who will attend the G7.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has introduced an interesting point. I recognise entirely that the finance and economics of the situation are dictated by political arrangements and the catastrophe of Zimbabwe represents political failure, too. She will know that we shall examine the question of further economic measures after the Zimbabwean elections have taken place, but we share with her our real anxieties about the nature of those elections. In a sense, these issues need to be addressed in the broader context of the political and economic situation, not specifically by the Finance Ministers.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the noble Lord has highlighted the general issue that is of greater concern to the wider world and relates to that earlier question about investment in Africa; namely, that investment must be for the benefit of the peoples of the African countries, rather than the select few who, in the past in some countries—as the noble Lord has identified—have been able through corruption to channel resources to limited numbers. My right honourable friend has made it absolutely clear that one of the G8's key objectives in making progress on the whole strategy for Africa is eliminating corruption.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I beg to move that consideration on Report be now adjourned.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, does the noble Lord accept that one of the most important economic issues for Africa is creating investment in order to create employment and that the political situation in Zimbabwe is absolutely central to the likelihood of foreign investors investing in Africa south of the Sahara?Lord Northbourne
: My Lords, is there any evidence that local authorities are ignoring the guidance?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, I hope that the Minister will accept my thanks for having included in the Statement the reference to the services directive, which is of great importance to the single market. Will she confirm, as I believe she hinted in her reply just now, that the legal base for that directive is one which requires qualified majority voting and therefore that neither the French President nor the French Prime Minister, if they ever get their statements into concordance, is in a position to prevent the adoption of the directive? Can the Minister look at what I believe is called "the Narrative" when it relates to the EU and G8 presidencies and summits and the relationship between developmental issues and security issues?Lord Hannay of Chiswick
Prospects"a unified Europe carries more clout in all these areas".400"the European Union's powers, rights and duties".Prospects.ProspectsProspects,399: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness for repeating the Statement, particularly as this is the middle of lunch, which is not a very congenial time and may account for the slightly thin attendance of noble Lords on either side. Nevertheless, this is an important Statement, not least because of our forthcoming presidency of the European Union from July and Britain's presidency of the G8 throughout the whole year, although I think that Ministers will find that the presidential chair is not quite as marvellous a position
Prospects"a unified Europe carries more clout in all these areas".400"the European Union's powers, rights and duties".Prospects.ProspectsProspects,399Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, while sympathising—Lord Puttnam
: My Lords, the European Union is an important trading partner for the 77 African, Caribbean and Pacific states and the proposed economic partnership agreements offer the opportunity for integrated trade, political co-operation and development assistance. The Government are working closely with the European Commission, other member states and NGOs to ensure that the agreements remain development focused.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I am absolutely intrigued—as the House will be—to know that the referendum is to be on continued membership of the European Union. I have long suspected that that was the case. In respect of the point made, the development of trading policies and the attempt to assist the developing countries in fair trade will not wait for that kind of development. Whatever the outcome may be in any referendum, these trading agreements are vital to the health and development of the poorest countries in the world. We should put our shoulders behind that.Lord Triesman
357: My Lords, in an earlier answer I was trying to emphasise that the agreements would necessarily be introduced over time. They will be—I apologise for the jargon—asymmetrical for some time. But I think that the United Kingdom is broadly right in taking this direction. Were we to go back and ask for a changed mandate in the EU, which plainly would be a possibility, there is a real risk that the change would
357Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the trap described by the noble Earl is a broader trap than perhaps he indicated. A significant number of developing countries are not in these agreements at all. All those countries will have to be treated on a par with one another under the WTO rules—which insist, in my judgment quite rightly, that whatever the past regimes, all the countries in the developing world must have equal access to the trading arrangements. That is the full impact of the rules. It will mean that those who have had preferential arrangements, compared with other developing countries, will wish to continue those preferential arrangements, but that seems hardly likely to succeed if everybody is to be treated the same.Lord Triesman
358: My Lords, the timetable for the negotiations that we are engaged in has been established for some time. I do not think that the United Kingdom on its own can unravel that timetable, but we have not got to the point at which it will come to culmination. It is possible—the Government have made the point on a number of occasions—that there are alternatives to EPAs for those nations that believe that it is an onerous obligation. I will not go through those alternatives in detail because there are a significant number of them. There is nothing that compels any nation to enter into any of those agreements.358Lord Triesman
: My Lords, we certainly will do our best. I believe that we have achieved a central role in the EU in this regard. The Government believe that agreement on stable investment regimes and a positive competitive climate will foster the development of competitive industries in the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. We therefore believe that agreements on investment rules and competition policy should be a useful element in the wider partnership agreements. But—and it is an important but—the agreements have to be tailored to suit the relevant region involved.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does the Minister recognise that, at least in my area, the neighbourhood watch is considered much more important than many of the Bills on which we spend possibly useful hours in this House? Does she agree that, because it depends on a huge number of volunteers, the movement is inspired by confidence? It is very important to avoid discord and disaffection, and I hope that that can be done.Lord Williamson of Horton
: My Lords, I totally support the aims of the noble Lord, Lord Ashley. I look forward to the Government's response and how they are going to try to work this provision in, because it must be included. It is totally in keeping with the logic put forward that this provision should be worked into the Bill and government policy.Lord Addington
391: My Lords, "thank you" is the most appropriate thing to say here. Thank you to the Minister for bringing it forward and thank you to all those in government who won the fight to ensure that
391Lord Addington
"( ) A public authority for the purposes of subsection (1) includes a body responsible for a school as determined in accordance with Schedule 4A to the Act."Page 9, line 2, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 16:
"( ) A public authority for the purposes of subsection (1) includes a body responsible for a school as determined in accordance with Schedule 4A to the Act."Page 9, line 2, at end insert—Lord Addington
: My Lords, in listening to the Minister's reply I am convinced that the Government's intentions are good on this. But I am afraid that it is one of the ones that we will need to have a watching brief on to make sure that it works properly. I would prefer it on the face of the Bill because it would be much easier to refer back to. Having said that, if the Government invite us to keep a watching brief then we shall do it. Let us hope that we do not have to call back to this subject at a later date. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Addington
Page 13, line 15, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 19:
Page 13, line 15, at end insert—Lord Addington
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply. He has gone quite a long way to recognise my concerns but I should like to press him further on some technical information. What exactly is it about this amendment that the Government find difficult at the moment? A reply would help us in further preparation. May we have a little more detail please?Lord Addington
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that response. I will certainly take him up on that offer. This is a difficult matter and the noble Lord, Lord Carter, seemed to catch some flak on my behalf.Lord Addington
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for saying that we have tabled the right amendment but that it is in the wrong place. I suppose that at least that is still a pass mark, if not an "A". With the Minister's assurances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Addington
Before Clause 10, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 28:
Before Clause 10, insert the following new clause—Lord Addington
: My Lords, I support the measure; it is a very brave attempt to square another circle.Lord Addington
: My Lords, very little remains for me to say that has not already been said. I merely state that I support this amendment; we must move now or we will leave a hole.Lord Addington
: My Lords, although I applaud the general approach of the Chancellor, should not the G7 Finance Ministers commission a report on the impact of Mugabe's policies on foreign direct investment, not just in Zimbabwe, but in the whole of the region?Lord Avebury
: My Lords, I, too, thank the Minister for her encouraging remarks in contrast to the rather lugubrious and reactionary offerings of the opposition Front Bench spokesman. Regarding what is termed in the trade Wim Kok Mark 2 Lisbon revised agenda, the Luxembourg presidency has suggested that each member state should submit its own reform suggestions and policies. These need to be promulgated at the ECOFIN meeting on 8 March and presumably the European Council on 22 and 23 March. Will Her Majesty's Government be making some priority suggestions in that context?Lord Dykes
: My Lords, my noble friend puts her case very well. I, too, was torn between the two paths and was, at first, inclined to support the views of the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, but I have changed my mind because, when one thinks of the problems and difficulties associated with a list, one realises that the matter will become embedded in a fog of confusion. The fact that the list will quickly become dated is crucial. We would have amendment after amendment to the list and people would not know where they were.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, perhaps I may very briefly congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Carter, on this achievement and, even more rarely, congratulate my noble friend Lady Hollis on the Government's acceptance of it.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, I, too, support the amendment. I am far from satisfied with the Government's response. Here we face a very familiar situation: a powerful case made by my noble friend, on the one hand, and the Government, on the other, saying that it adds nothing to existing legislation. We have heard that excuse so often that it is becoming threadbare. It does not wash because, as the noble Baroness, Lady Masham, said, disabled people are not getting the facilities that they need. That could be through prejudice or neglect or for any one of a hundred reasons.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, let us suppose we accept the date of 2020, but it is not in the Bill. Let us further suppose that the railway industry typically drags its feet and then, closer to the time, finds that it cannot meet the date. The pressure on the then government, whoever it is, to defer the date will be enormous. The railway industry could again be recalcitrant, resulting in the date being pushed further and further back. If the date is set out in the Bill that cannot be done.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, for once, I agree with every word spoken by the noble Lord. Lord Higgins. He put the case extremely well and was well briefed by the Disability Charities Consortium and I agree with its views too. I believe that it has now come round to the date of 2020 rather than 2017. 1 believe that the noble Lord, Lord Higgins, recommended the former date to my noble friend, or certainly will do so on Third Reading. However, the concomitant of that—this is a very important reservation—is that there should be no exemptions. I know that we shall discuss exemptions when we debate Amendment No. 19 and other amendments, but it is very important that the message goes to the Minister that the acceptance of the later date of 2020 is conditional on there being no exemptions.Lord Ashley of Stoke
442: My Lords, I can understand how the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, made that mistake because the amendments are practically identical. Vitally, our amendment deals with the communal aspect, but because the two amendments are so similar I have always made the same mistake. I wrote my few remarks at the last moment, so I can understand that. The speeches in this debate are almost directly applicable to the next debate. I am surprised that the two amendments have not been grouped together because that would make for ease of debates in the House of Lords.442Lord Ashley of Stoke
423: My Lords, I hope that the Government will be sympathetic to the amendments. Unless the Minister knows something that we do not, they are literally the only way in which we can monitor the exemptions. Without them, the railway industry can do as it wishes.423Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that important statement. I would far sooner that the amendment was accepted by the Government. but I accept that the Government have made enormous strides for disabled people. Of course I accept my noble friend and the Government's good faith and promises. I am conscious of the need for brief speeches and short debates. However, this debate really has enormously helped independent living. I therefore beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Ashley of Stoke
Before Clause 1, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 3:
Before Clause 1, insert the following new clause—Lord Ashley of Stoke
362: My Lords, the short answer to the noble Lord's initial question is "no". I have no knowledge of that scheme. It may be that Defra is aware of it.362Lord Rooker
: My Lords, one cannot yet be certain where the developments will be in many of the growth areas. It is early days in a 20-year programme. In some of the growth areas, particularly in Ashford, which is potentially at risk, there has been a satisfactory outcome between the delivery vehicle led by the local authority, the Environment Agency and the developers, to make sure that the building is not at risk in the areas of greatest risk on the flood plain. The same kind of work is going on in the other growth areas such as Milton Keynes in the south Midlands. The idea is to make sure that we get a solution. We have always to be spending money on flood risk and flood resilience. But we have to measure the risk. It is only since 2001 and the issue of the guidance on development and flood risk that we have had a system for planning which seeks to measure the flood risk in the first place.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, as I said to my noble friend, 88 per cent of decisions in 2003–04 were decided in line with the Environment Agency guidance. The issue is that the planning application needs to be brought to the attention of the Environment Agency, so it is not 100 per cent coverage. My noble friend asked whether the guidance is being deliberately ignored or flouted. There is a good deal of co-operation between my department, Defra, the local authorities and the Environment Agency to make sure that we get this right and to strengthen the flood resilience processes in our planning policies.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, it is up to the local planning authority. Of the planning decisions taken in 2003–04, 88 per cent were decided in line with the Environment Agency's flood risk advice. That percentage is higher than that of a couple of years earlier, so greater notice is being taken. I am not saying that decisions are 100 per cent in line. There are always variations, and arguments about risk. But the concept is that policy guidance should be followed. That is what planning policy guidance note 25 is all about. That guidance is currently under review. We have had six months' consultation, and we intend to review and strengthen the guidance later this year.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the Government welcome the ABI report. The ABI report shows that in the growth areas, as in other parts of the country, effective land planning policies will help to minimise flood risk. Some sections of the press have misinterpreted the report as showing that 10,000 new homes in the growth areas would be at significant risk. That figure comes from the report's baseline scenario, which assumes that the current planning policy guidance note 25, dealing with development and flood risk, is not applied to new developments in the growth areas. That is clearly unrealistic.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
: My Lords, it naturally follows. It would be barmy to go ahead with large numbers of dwellings in areas where the flood risk was great. The risk has to be measured. There is policy guidance. We welcome the report. It is a very useful contribution. Its recommendations, along with those of the Environment Agency, are just the thing, as the Minister said in the press notice issued by the ABI itself. We welcome the report, and we want to work with insurers to minimise the problems. We cannot remove the flood risk, because we are an island nation. We have a very high degree of flood risk. We are working on it, particularly in the gateway, where the risk is very high.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the Minister sounds very confident about the new economic partnership agreements. Would he recognise that the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries will be in a worse position than they are presently under the Cotonou agreement? Further, would he recognise that they are in a trap of deadlines? They are in this principle of reciprocity, which means that they will have to be compatible with the World Trade Organisation and trade equally with the developed nations. How will we get them out of that trap?The Earl of Sandwich
401: My Lords, I join with the noble Lord, Lord Howell of Guildford, in thanking the Minister for repeating the Statement, even if I cannot share all the other sentiments which he expressed. It is also extremely useful that we have an opportunity to comment, if briefly, on the White Paper published this morning. I want to turn to that question of our parliamentary consideration of these matters at the end of my remarks.401Lord Roper
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, perhaps I may ask an additional question. Does she agree that the National Institute for Clinical Excellence has among its responsibilities a concern with the evaluation not only of drugs and other procedures in the NHS but the evaluation of aids to the disabled and that it is likely that it will continue to evaluate those and to give instructions to health trusts to use the appropriate aids for disabled people?Lord Walton of Detchant
374: My Lords, I, too, support the principle underlying the amendment. I spent 50 years in the clinical practice of neurology and carried out a great deal of research on muscular dystrophy and other neuromuscular diseases. In the early days, when I began that work, there was, I am afraid I have to say, an attitude of neglect, often relating to people who were
374Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, I support the idea behind the amendments. I know that in theory at least any patient in hospital cannot be discriminated against but that is theoretical. As a practising physician for many years, now retired some years ago, I know that that practice was not always followed through. Although the wording may not be exactly what is required, I hope that the principle and the idea can be incorporated into the Bill.Lord Turnberg
: My Lords, would the Minister accept that the trade justice movement—led by Oxfam, Christian Aid and ActionAid—has serious concerns about the process by which these economic partnership agreements are being negotiated? One example is the recent opening of the Kenyan sugar market which meant that its industry was effectively wiped out, with very serious consequences in western Kenya. While we are all in favour of free trade, would he assure the House that the watchword for negotiating these agreements must be consent, not compulsion?Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, we on these Benches share the concern of the noble Baroness on this issue and look forward to hearing the Minister's reply.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I would like to make it clear that we support the official Opposition in their view that a firm date should be in the Bill. For all the reasons that the noble Lord gave we believe it is important. It is vital that everyone involved knows that the date is clearly nailed down with no wriggle or room to be amended. On balance, having considered carefully the Government's explanations and our discussions with the industry about cost, we feel that the right compromise for the date is 2020.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
After Clause 8, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 27:
After Clause 8, insert the following new clause—Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
434: My Lords, I thank the noble Baronesses who have spoken in my support and I thank the Minister for his characteristic and courteous reply. I am afraid that I am not impressed. My feelings are similar to those I expressed in Grand Committee. We debated the DRC response, referred to by the noble Lord, Lord Higgins, in Grand Committee. I said then and I repeat now that the DRC pointed out that the powers are there. but Clauses 2 and 3 do not seem to produce an effective deterrent. We still come back to the point, which the Minister has not really answered, that although technically the powers are there for local authorities to enforce it, unless one accepts an amendment like mine creating a specific offence with much more serious penalties, local authorities, in practice, will not be effective. So, effective deterrence—effective enforcement—requires my amendment.434Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, I thank her for cranking the Whitehall machine into gear on this issue.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
"NNWA has played an important role in the continued success and development of Neighbourhood Watch schemes across the country. Their absence would be a significant loss to Neighbourhood Watch and to the Police Service nationally".: My Lords, does the Minister agree that there is a need for a central co-ordinating body? Will she take into account the comments made by the chief constable of Hertfordshire, Frank Whiteley:
"NNWA has played an important role in the continued success and development of Neighbourhood Watch schemes across the country. Their absence would be a significant loss to Neighbourhood Watch and to the Police Service nationally".Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, can the Minister assure me that when the Environment Agency advises that houses should not be built on the flood-plain, it is the firm policy of the Government that government departments and local authorities should ensure that houses are not built in those places?Lord Crickhowell
: My Lords, the Minister mentioned in his Answer, very properly, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposals at the G7 Finance Ministers' meeting would be made against a background of corruption, which is the great disease of Africa and until that can be tackled, there is no hope for the economies of the African continent. What proposals do the British Government have to extirpate or, at least, greatly to diminish the extent of the cancer of corruption in Africa?Lord Lawson of Blaby
: My Lords, will the Minister clarify the position so that we can consider these clauses against the wider framework? I understand that the provision calls perfectly properly for accommodation for disabled people. That would mean the elimination of about three seats. Therefore, on a 12-coach train that is normally full, 36 passengers would have to stand who would otherwise not have to do so. I query whether we have the proportionality right as regards the obligation we are placing on the future design and construction of these coaches and whether adequate thought has been given to ensuring that we have the right balance as between the interests of the disabled and those of the "abled".Lord Vinson
: My Lords, will the noble Lord respond to the question I put to him? I do not query in any way the desirability of the regulations, rather I query their proportionality. I am also not querying the date by which they should be introduced. But if, as I am led to understand, the full implication of these regulations would mean that on a long-distance journey some 36 more passengers would have to stand, have we got the proportionality of the degree of modification required to meet the requirements of the disabled balanced properly against the need to seat as many ordinary passengers as possible? That is the root of my question.Lord Vinson
: My Lords, if the Minister has difficulty in accepting the measure, whether it involves the date of 2017 or 2020, there is another way to skin the cat; that is, to put in the Bill a requirement that the regulations be made by a particular date. That would put the pressure on government to get going. They would have to flag up what they were going to do in those regulations which we could say would have to be made by, say, 2009. If the Minister cannot accept the broad thrust of these amendments with either of the dates that have been discussed, that would be another way to skin the cat.Lord Tebbit
414: My Lords, this is a good example of the way in which legislation can become extremely complex to achieve something reasonably sensible. That worries me enormously—I believe it worries the Minister a little; that involves trying to knit together and make sense of the various provisions so that we do not find a judge at some stage asking what is a public service vehicle and finding that the legislation does not give him clear guidance.414Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for giving way. He referred to the definition of a public service vehicle as a vehicle with more than 22 seats. Am I correct in thinking that, particularly in rural areas, it is not unusual to find so-called minibuses that are much smaller than 22-seaters? Are they brought in, in any way, by this legislation as it stands or by the amendment proposed by my noble friend Lord Higgins?Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I wonder whether the Minister can give us some examples of what she would expect local authorities and other public bodies to do to promote the interests of disabled people. It would be helpful if we knew what she had in mind. I am always worried about legislation that is vague and sounds wonderfully good when we are perhaps not quite certain what it would require people to do.Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for giving way. She has given a very good example, but I hope she will understand that it makes me slightly uneasy when she says that it came off the top of her head. I would have thought that it had been carefully considered in the department earlier, together with a lot of other good reasons.Lord Tebbit
424: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Addington, put into my mind the fact that whatever the end date is—perhaps 2020—most noble Lords will probably have to declare a lack of interest. I expect to be here, but at the age of 89 I might have difficulty getting here if th424Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I am obliged to the noble Lord for that Answer. Given that the Prime Minister has declared that this is the "year of Africa", should not the conference be taking note of the fact that the catastrophe in Zimbabwe is not only political, but economic, financial and social for the whole of southern Africa?Lord Blaker
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Blaker
: My Lords, my noble friend made a welcome commitment that the British presidency of the EU would focus on the themes of security, stability and prosperity, both inside the EU and beyond—themes that were also emphasised in the White Paper. Does she welcome recent opinion polls on the constitutional treaty which seem to indicate that the public is more favourably inclined towards the treaty than previously thought?Lord Truscott
: My Lords, in his responses, the Minister has indicated that there are various ways of overcoming the dangers of uninsurable property in flood-plains. But the serious question is whether the Government are satisfied that the regulatory processes of development are sufficiently robust to ensure that uninsurable houses are not constructed in flood-plains? Following on from that, there is always a cost implication. Is the Minister satisfied that these restrictions do not endanger the Government's programme for affordable housing?Lord Dixon-Smith
375: My Lords, in Committee, the noble Baroness, Lady Masham, moved a similar amendment on the problems from which disabled people suffer when on hospital visits, especially in radiography departments, where some people find that they are not given proper help to get on to beds so that they can be X-rayed, and so on. Various noble Lords have illustrated that this morning. The noble Baroness pointed out that patients with a disability should have the facilities to be diagnosed and treated; otherwise as the noble Baroness, Lady Neuberger, said, they are discriminated against.375Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, sometimes the noble Baroness speaks so fast that it is difficult to follow her. However, in her original example she mentioned Clause 19(5), which is set out in heavy type in the Keeling version she so helpfully provided earlier. It is therefore included in the Bill.Lord Skelmersdale
380Page 4, line 5, leave out from "Crown" to end of line 7. moved Amendment No. 5:
380Page 4, line 5, leave out from "Crown" to end of line 7.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I understand the argument put forward to explain why the employment elements of the newly amended Act are excluded. I also take the point that the provision of goods and services needs to be excluded. As a child, I made a monthly visit to a military hospital for blood tests. It was the most convenient place that was equipped with rapid analytical services. So I am conscious of the example given by the noble Baroness. The other one I found, as I believe she did, a little strange. None the less, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Skelmersdale
382From Exclusion to Inclusion.Page 4, leave out lines 10 to 12. moved Amendment No. 6:
382From Exclusion to Inclusion.Page 4, leave out lines 10 to 12.Lord Skelmersdale
366: My Lords, I am not gob smacked—that is a very inelegant expression—but I am overcome. Of course I shall withdraw the amendment and will look forward to the government amendment when it appears at Third Reading.366Lord Skelmersdale
Before Clause 1, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 1:
Before Clause 1, insert the following new clause—Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, the Government have been very energetic, although they have come somewhat late to the area of disability discrimination. They have had three orders under the original Act—certainly two—and now have produced this Bill, which went through a pre-legislative scrutiny process. We have the report to which the noble Lord, Lord Carter has just alluded. It is clear that their intention is to pursue through legislation many of the elements contained in that report. Certainly, one of those would be the total inclusion of the rights of disabled people that are the subject of this amendment.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, before the Minister answers that, will she accept that these two amendments, which have rightly been welcomed on all sides of the House, are about social inclusion and that is why they are necessary?Lord Skelmersdale
396: My Lords, I accept, of course, that the arguments are extremely finely balanced, as the noble Lord, Lord Carter, said. They are so finely balanced that the noble Lord, Lord Ashley, has changed his mind since we last considered these matters. I also recognise that the DRC and the Royal National Institute for the Deaf are opposed to the amendment, whereas the Law Society has promoted it. I shall consider what has been said. I certainly take seriously the criticisms of the amendment, especially the new schedule that it proposes. This matter really boils down to the fact that the Government do not wish to keep such a list up to date. That is probably the truth of the matter.396Lord Skelmersdale
Rights Act393The Meaning of "Public Authority" under the Human"any person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature".Page 8, line 14, leave out from "includes" to "; but" in line 15 and insert "every body or other person specified in Schedule 1A or of a description falling within that Schedule" moved Amendment No. 14:
Rights Act393The Meaning of "Public Authority" under the Human"any person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature".Page 8, line 14, leave out from "includes" to "; but" in line 15 and insert "every body or other person specified in Schedule 1A or of a description falling within that Schedule"Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, as I understood it from discussions in Committee, the DRC has already been asked by the Government to produce such a code. Looking at subsection (3) of the amendment, I hope that when it is produced it will be regularly reviewed.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, the noble Baroness is quite right; there is an overlap here. The common parts have to be accessible; it is as easy as that. However, if the Minister would prefer me to make most of my speech on a later amendment I am happy to do that. I do not want her to tell us that it was not part of the Labour Party's manifesto to legislate on this, or indeed on the other matter, as she did before. It is not a good argument. We all know that governments fail regularly to enact legislation that was promised in their manifesto. Look at the Labour Party's reaction to this House over decades as a good example. It is only very recently that it has legislated in this area.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, put into its most simple form, the argument is that there is no point in having a flat if, as a disabled person, one cannot get into it. If adaptations are not made to the common parts few flats will be appropriate to their needs. It is all very well for the Minister to rely, as she did in Committee, on the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927, which says that a landlord cannot withhold his consent to adaptations unreasonably. But what is unreasonable for an able-bodied tenant would be quite reasonable for a disabled one. That is why the matter should be put right in this Bill rather than in a housing Act.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, may I reverse the process and offer the noble Baroness a meeting to discuss the minor niggle?Lord Skelmersdale
Page 35, line 21, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 34:
Page 35, line 21, at end insert—Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I do not myself have the resources to approach every local authority in the country. For the Government, in the shape of the Minister, to say that progress is being made in a satisfactory way I find very difficult to believe. However, at this time of night there is nothing more that I can do about it, so I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I say in my own defence that these two amendments are very similar. The only real difference is that this one concerns paying for the adaptation as opposed to allowing the adaptation to be done.Lord Skelmersdale
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;"( ) It is unlawful for a person to publish, or cause to be published, an advertisement which invites applications for goods, facilities or services which indicates, or might reasonably be understood to indicate, that an application will or may be determined to any extent by reference to—
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;Page 24, line 24, at end insert—had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 29:
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;"( ) It is unlawful for a person to publish, or cause to be published, an advertisement which invites applications for goods, facilities or services which indicates, or might reasonably be understood to indicate, that an application will or may be determined to any extent by reference to—
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;
(c) any reluctance of the person determining the application to comply with a duty to make reasonable adjustments or (in relation to employment services) with the duty imposed by section 21(1) (duty of providers of services to make adjustments) as modified by section 21A(6).""(b the applicant not having had any disability, or any particular disability; or(a) the applicant not having any disability, or any particular disability;Page 24, line 24, at end insert—Lord Higgins
: My Lords, if I am correct, the noble Lord is proposing to have bus stop areas that will not necessarily be in bus lanes. That would be highly dangerous. You would be travelling on a non-bus lane and then have to pull out, then back in again. You would proceed by a series of zigzags. You could take approximately an hour every morning to drive seven miles. It would be extremely dangerous.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, it is important to take account of the DRC. Its latest correspondence suggests that it is not seeking substantive amendments to the Bill in this respect for two reasons.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, has the Minister moved on to the next group of amendments?Lord Higgins
429: My Lords, we need to put this in the context that we mentioned earlier; namely, if we go to a later date, we have to be sure that the position is clear regarding exemptions. We debated this matter in Committee. In its fourth report the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee made it clear that it did not think that the arrangement the Government were proposing involving no parliamentary scrutiny at all of exemption orders was appropriate and that they ought to be dealt with by the negative resolution procedure in line with various precedents elsewhere.429Lord Higgins
: My Lords, be that as it may, I am grateful to the Minister. We have certainly made a major improvement to the Bill.Lord Higgins
After Clause 5, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 17:
After Clause 5, insert the following new clause—Lord Higgins
413: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, I seek to clarify something. My understanding is that local authority vehicles are described as "exempt". Do they none the less still have to conform to the provisions of the DDA? Secondly, is it the case
413Lord Higgins
: My Lords, no doubt the Minister will take that point into account in correspondence and we can make progress on that basis and if necessary return to the matter at Third Reading. I fully accept that the amendment was probably defective: it had the terrible crime of being understandable. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Higgins
415"(5A) The Secretary of State shall set a date in regulations by which time all rail vehicles must be regulated rail vehicles and this date must be no later than 1st January 2017."""( ) In section 46 of the 1995 Act after subsection (5) there is inserted—Page 12, line 40, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 18:
415"(5A) The Secretary of State shall set a date in regulations by which time all rail vehicles must be regulated rail vehicles and this date must be no later than 1st January 2017."""( ) In section 46 of the 1995 Act after subsection (5) there is inserted—Page 12, line 40, at end insert—Lord Higgins
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, can I be clear that if a bus is run around south London and so on by a group of parents—or perhaps the school—and they cover the costs, does that make it a fare-paying bus and does it mean that it is a public service vehicle, and will it have to have a destination board and everything else?Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I will not go over the9 ground that the noble Lord covered adequately so far as Amendments Nos. 19, 20 and 21 are concerned. I look forward with interest to what the Minister says. However, Amendment No. 25 seems very important against the general background of being reassured that the exemptions granted are not excessive. I hope that the Government are able to accept that amendment. If not, we will have to consider what we can do about it subsequently, or indeed today. It is important in combination with the next group of amendments.Lord Higgins
: There is a slight sequential problem here, but the noble Lord, Lord Ashley, is right to reinforce the point. If we are aiming for a later rather than an earlier date, it is crucial that the exemptions should be very carefully constrained. As the Minister has just pointed out, it is hoped that we will be able to clear up the matter when addressing subsequent amendments.Lord Higgins
384Official Report,"would indeed potentially enforce upon public authorities a narrow and very limited advance which itself would militate against meeting the standards to which we are already committed".—[Official Report,"a technical provision which is designed to ensure that the prohibition of discrimination in the exercise of public functions does not overlap with provisions elsewhere in the Act".Page 4, leave out lines 22 and 23. moved Amendment No. 8:
384Official Report,"would indeed potentially enforce upon public authorities a narrow and very limited advance which itself would militate against meeting the standards to which we are already committed".—[Official Report,"a technical provision which is designed to ensure that the prohibition of discrimination in the exercise of public functions does not overlap with provisions elsewhere in the Act".Page 4, leave out lines 22 and 23.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I have repeated on previous occasions the remark by Iain Macleod that one does not shoot Santa Claus. I am delighted by the Minister's very clear exposition of the situation. I doubt whether those in another place would have come to the same technical point and reached such a desirable outcome. I hope that he realises that this will be a major plank in our general election campaign and will be declared a great victory of the Conservative Party over the present Government.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, have the Government studied the American scheme to cover insurance on properties on the Atlantic coast in the case of catastrophic damage? It is commercial insurance, run by a company that normally meets damages out of premium income, but when the damage is very widespread, the federal government will underwrite the losses. A scheme of that kind could be developed in this country, and it may well be necessary on the east coast, where the Government are declining to maintain the existing sea defences. I should declare an interest, as my home is close to the flood plain and is 16 feet above sea level.Lord Bridges
: My Lords, I add my words of welcome to the important White Paper. Perhaps I may press the Minister on the points made by my noble friend Lord Roper on the new European Defence Agency. The Statement refers to it, as does the White Paper. We have the new headline goal of 2010. We seem to have lost the old Helsinki headline goal of—whatever it was—2002 or 2003 that did not happen. It is important that the European Defence Agency focuses on that. Can she assure us that it will not turn into another defence procurement agency, as there are signs that it may?Lord Garden
406: My Lords, I also thank the Minister for the Statement. I shall focus my attention on climate change. I am delighted that the EU presidency is treating it as one of the prime issues for attention. I and other Members of this House have
406Baroness Billingham
: My Lords, I thank the Minister most warmly for that promise. I wonder whether she is aware of the new management structure and that two large companies have both offered £50,000 each and another £10,000 for an annual income for national neighbourhood watch. I am sure that with the Minister's promise, national neighbourhood watch will continue to flourish and bring in all the disparate small groups around the country.Baroness Harris of Richmond
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Harris of Richmond
: My Lords, this is an important question. Can my noble friend tell the House whether the Government are giving any assistance to other organisations that work on the ground with neighbourhood watch? I know that in Greenwich and Woolwich there is a group of organisations that work together. Can the Minister tell the House about any help that the Government are giving such groups?Baroness Gibson of Market Rasen
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until 2.30 p.m.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that financial action in countries emerges to a great extent from its political procedures? The Iraqis have just had a successful vote abroad. Nearly 2 million Mozambiquis living in South Africa were allowed to vote in their country's election, but up to 2 million Zimbabweans living abroad were not allowed to do so. Will that point be put forcefully by the G7 Ministers to the SADC countries, because it is totally unrealistic that the SADC countries are supposed to be observing the election, but that nothing should be done to enable the people who have a right to vote to do so?Baroness Park of Monmouth
"We would be concerned that adding the above words could actually make it easier for public authorities—for something to be in the public interest could be interpreted as purely a question on the relative numbers affected—rather than the degree of harm to the minority group—and crucially not including (as proportionality does) a consideration of whether there is an alternative policy which is less harmful of the minority group".386Official ReportPage 6, line 10, at end insert "and is therefore justified only in relation to acts that are in the public interest" moved Amendment No. 9:
"We would be concerned that adding the above words could actually make it easier for public authorities—for something to be in the public interest could be interpreted as purely a question on the relative numbers affected—rather than the degree of harm to the minority group—and crucially not including (as proportionality does) a consideration of whether there is an alternative policy which is less harmful of the minority group".386Official ReportPage 6, line 10, at end insert "and is therefore justified only in relation to acts that are in the public interest"Baroness Darcy de Knayth
389: My Lords, I thank the Minister and all noble Lords for their remarks about Sir Peter Large. I am sure that Sheenah, his wife, will be very grateful for them. I also thank the Minister for her clear explanation of the legal interpretation and her further remarks about it already being a recognised point. It takes ages for case law to be built up so to start all over again would be a severe disadvantage. I am
389Baroness Darcy de Knayth
: My Lords, I want briefly to support the amendment. As the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, said, if you cannot get on and off the bus because it cannot reach the pavement to lower the ramp, it totally emasculates all the expensive provisions. And just to wind up the Minister mildly, I cannot help drawing the parallel with communal areas where you cannot access your flat because you cannot cross them.Baroness Darcy de Knayth
Before Clause 13, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 30:
Before Clause 13, insert the following new clause—Baroness Darcy de Knayth
: My Lords, I strongly support the amendment. 1 hope that my noble friend meets with success immediately or, at any rate, at Third Reading.Baroness Darcy de Knayth
444: My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have taken part in the debate, particularly my noble friend Lady Wilkins for her strong support. I thank the noble Lords, Lord Carter and Lord Skelmersdale, for their support. The noble Lord, Lord Addington, said that we have to move. I thank the noble Lord for that push. As the noble Lord, Lord Ashley, said, they are verily similar. From the point of view of the disabled person they are similar, because you cannot use your flat. For the powers that be, this area is apparently much more difficult.444Baroness Darcy de Knayth
: My Lords, the United Kingdom remains committed to international action to tackle climate change, including through the UN framework and the Kyoto Protocol. We are continuing to work with international partners. We are trying to work with the United States and large developing countries to point out the cost of inaction, to build on science and to highlight the opportunities. I answered the point raised by the noble Lord, Lord Roper, on EU emissions trading schemes to tackle aviation emissions. We will be actively pursuing the inclusion of an intra-European Union aviation arrangement as well as the EU emissions trading scheme.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
407: My Lords, I really do hope not. I think that that would be a disastrous way for the defence agency to progress. The noble Lord and I have previously had an opportunity to exchange views on the issue. I assure him that our view is that the European Defence Agency will make a
407Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I take issue with the noble Lord. I do not believe that the noble Lord, Lord Howell, is ever lugubrious. He treads a rather delicate path on this matter, as no doubt he has to. As regards the Wim Kok agenda, the United Kingdom has wanted this reform agenda. We shall be working very closely with our allies to ensure that we achieve real progress. Our ambition to make Europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 underpins the community's actions and priorities over the next five years.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
405: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Hannay. I shall take the last point first. They are distinct presidencies and obviously they have to be kept distinct for the integrity of the organisations of which the United Kingdom will
405Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
398397: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Foreign Secretary. The Statement is as follows:398397Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
404403: My Lords, I thank the noble Lords, Lord Howell of Guildford and Lord Roper, for their responses. I particularly thank the noble Lord, Lord Howell, for his appreciation of us being here when many of our colleagues are not, and the noble Lord, Lord Roper, for his fuller appreciation of the content of the Statement.404403Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, we believe that the priorities can be met within a budget of 1 per cent. I am grateful for my noble friend's overall support for the publishing of the White Paper. I, like she, believe that this is an enormously important addition to sparing discussion on these issues and trying to deal with what my right honourable friend the Foreign Secretary described this summer as the myths rather than the reality of Europe.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
408: My Lords, I very much welcome those opinion polls. I welcome them because I think that they are part of British
408Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I beg the noble Lord's pardon, but we have completed eight minutes and we should move on.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
(Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean.): My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend Lady Amos, I beg to move the first Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean.)Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
(Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean.): My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend Lady Amos, I beg to move the second Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean.)Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I support the amendment and the intentions behind it, although there may be another way of dealing with it. The Government have come a long way—so far, that the proposed provisions should be an obvious part of the amended Bill. Apart from the very able way in which situations were described, two very important points—that one in five people have some form of disability, and the point about ageing made by the noble Baroness, Lady Neuberger—surely make the case so satisfactorily that the Government can accept the amendment.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I, too, warmly welcome the White Paper, but principally as a means of engaging the public and Parliament in combating ignorance and meeting what I believe is the communication deficit. Does my noble friend think that discussions on the financial perspectives will be concluded under the Luxembourg presidency? I am still slightly baffled as to how the Government can marry their belief that their priorities for the EU can be met within a budget of 1 per cent.Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
356: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that positive Answer, but can he do his best
356Baroness Whitaker
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Whitaker
"an incredibly heavy door. The shower was lethal: there was no alarm, no handrails or anything, and it was very slippery".One town for my body, another for my mind,372: My Lords, I support the noble Baroness, Lady Masham, in her amendment. Although I understand that financial considerations might make some additional equipment seem prohibitively expensive, it is commonplace for people with disabilities to find that they cannot access quite ordinary services within the NHS. Those of us who have worked in the National Health Service—many noble Lords are in that position—know from observation and experience that that is true."an incredibly heavy door. The shower was lethal: there was no alarm, no handrails or anything, and it was very slippery".One town for my body, another for my mind,372Baroness Neuberger
369Improving the Life Chances of Disabled People.368: My Lords, the amendment moved by my noble friend aims to insert a new clause at the front of the Bill which would set
369Improving the Life Chances of Disabled People.368Baroness Hollis of Heigham
370: My Lords, my noble friend is absolutely right, and I apologise for overlooking the point. When we come on to subsequent amendments,
370Baroness Hollis of Heigham
Towards Inclusion.365: My Lords, this clause is intended to protect disabled people from discrimination if they are involved in public representation. I believe that the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, expressed his concerns very clearly. This is precisely what we would expect to achieve once the DDA has been amended by this Bill. Current DDA protection, together with the changes in the Bill, will ensure that the DDA's protection will be at least as comprehensive as that provided by the Race Relations Act.
Towards Inclusion.365The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
: Yes, my Lords. That is my understanding. I am grateful to the noble Lord. I shall talk to my noble friend Lord Warner to make sure that any recommendations and good practice are disseminated as widely as possible.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
377376: My Lords, this has been an interesting and important debate. The noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, and my noble friend Lord Carter were both exactly right that behind it is a misunderstanding of what this current Bill does. If the Bill works as we expect it to, I am confident that the bleak situation asserted by the noble Lord. Lord Skelmersdale, should no longer apply.377376Baroness Hollis of Heigham
383: My Lords, although we discussed this amendment in Grand Committee, obviously I did not respond in a way that the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, thought satisfactory. The amendment would remove the regulation-making power in Section 21 B(5) which is necessary in order to allow for some degree of flexibility in stipulating the bodies to be subject to the new provisions.383Baroness Hollis of Heigham
381: My Lords, there may be confusion—although I suspect that there is not really—between the responsibilities under the Bill as regards employment—I confirm that the Armed Services are excluded from the disability discrimination responsibilities and duties regarding employment—as opposed to services where we do not think it is necessarily reasonable to exclude the Armed Forces simply because they are armed forces. As the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, will be aware, the Armed Forces are already exempt, as I say, from Part 2 of the Act and we have no plans to remove that exemption, so I can give the noble Lord the assurances that he sought.381Baroness Hollis of Heigham
395394: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, raised an issue we touched on in Committee; that is, how to ensure that the public sector duty is properly applied across the whole range
395394Baroness Hollis of Heigham
390Page 8, line 3, leave out "that is unlawful under this Act" and insert "of disabled persons that is related to their disabilities" moved Amendment No. 11:
390Page 8, line 3, leave out "that is unlawful under this Act" and insert "of disabled persons that is related to their disabilities"Baroness Hollis of Heigham
388: My Lords, like the noble Baroness, Lady Darcy de Knayth, and my noble friends Lord Morris and Lord Carter, I would also like to be associated with the tributes to Sir Peter Large. I came across him when under the tutelage of my noble friend Lord Carter. In the early 1990s I was deputy assistant second speaker on disability issues in your Lordships' House and I worked closely with DIG (the Disability Income Group) and with Pauline Thompson, who went on to become a good friend of many of your Lordships. First, the work of Sir Peter Large and then that undertaken by Jane Campbell on independent living turned the mindset of people like myself who came fresh to disability issues from a very different area. He will be hugely missed. His family will know that his achievements live on after him. He has made a most remarkable contribution to changing the mindsets of governments to a whole range of issues associated with disabled people.388Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, yes, I could go on to develop some of the points raised by the noble Lord, Lord Rix, about seeking to change attitudes towards people with learning disabilities. Often there are quite unacceptable responses and stigma—ill-informed, ignorant and so on—whether it be in cafes, restaurants, hotels or wherever. We want local authorities and those bodies to have a positive attitude and to recognise the rights of disabled people and how they can fully partake in public life. We also want to encourage the rest of society—not only employers but service providers and the like—to recognise the valuable contribution that disabled people, whatever their disability, can make to that society. I am expecting the DRC to be up there, actively helping us do precisely that.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(f) the need to encourage participation by disabled persons in public life.""(e) the need to promote positive attitudes towards disabled persons; andPage 8, line 9, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 13:
(f) the need to encourage participation by disabled persons in public life.""(e) the need to promote positive attitudes towards disabled persons; andPage 8, line 9, at end insert—Baroness Hollis of Heigham
392: My Lords, I should like first to say how much I appreciate the warm response for the amendments. The noble Lord, Lord Addington, made a very apt remark by describing this amendment as progressive. One of the phrases that I have been using in discussing the Bill is, "We want to bank this but continue to build". This is a bank-and-build Bill in which in all cases I am trying to see how we can ensure continued momentum and not simply write the legislation off after it is passed.392Baroness Hollis of Heigham
410Removing Barriers to AchievementSpecial Educational Needs and Disability—Towards Inclusive SchoolsDelivering Equality for Disabled People,: My Lords, we discussed this issue in Committee and I had hoped that I was able to assure noble Lords that an amendment of this nature is unnecessary.410Removing Barriers to AchievementSpecial Educational Needs and Disability—Towards Inclusive SchoolsDelivering Equality for Disabled People,Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, we are working with the DRC on this but, of course, if the noble Lord wishes to have a meeting, I shall certainly not refuse it.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
"We are very happy with the progress made. We have a commitment to placing Disability Housing Registers/an equivalent service on a statutory footing, but this Bill is not the right vehicle".Level Threshold450: Given that we are mindful of the time, my response will be much more abbreviated than otherwise would be the case. No one would challenge the desirability of a housing register if the local authority itself believes that that is the right way to approach this issue. But as the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, has himself identified, the Local Government Association is very reluctant to see this provision made compulsory for local authorities. It would have to be underpinned by requiring local authorities to survey all the 25 million dwellings in Great Britain. That would be a substantial requirement."We are very happy with the progress made. We have a commitment to placing Disability Housing Registers/an equivalent service on a statutory footing, but this Bill is not the right vehicle".Level Threshold450Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, we shall see. We have listened to the debates. We are holding, and have held, discussions with the DRC about all of this. Although I cannot go into detail now, we are proposing to bring forward an amendment at Third Reading, although I cannot say yet what the wording will be. We accept the need to improve the way in which the law works, including the 1927 Act, and we accept the principle that the DRC should be able to issue statutory codes of practice and should be able to support cases concerning disability related adaptations. We are looking at the best way of achieving that. The minor niggle/major obstacles remain; we shall have to discuss how we make progress on those issues and whether they count as reasonable grounds and so on. None the less, with those assurances and mindful of the time, I hope that my noble friend is pleased that we are able to pursue the spirit of her amendments and that we will come back to the matter at Third Reading.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
443: My Lords, I firmly believe that I will respond constructively but we shall see whether that view is shared by other noble Lords. We all agree, and the point was well made by the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, that it is unacceptable that disabled people can have a suitably adapted rented flat to live in but then find themselves a virtual prisoner because they cannot get through the common parts. That is where we start.443Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, this is the common parts amendment, as opposed to the demised premises one. I agree that they overlap substantially but I wonder whether the noble Lord is talking to the second of those two amendments rather than the first.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
437: My Lords, I shall be very brief indeed as the noble Lord, Lord Carter, made our points for us. We support the spirit of the amendment. Our only dispute is that we do not believe that it needs to be on the face of the Bill because it is already going to happen in the way described. So in a sense it is a declaratory amendment rather than one which delivers.437Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, despite the Minister's Answer to the original Question, and following on from the noble Earl, Lord Sandwich, what steps will Her Majesty's Government take to postpone the proposed EPAs in light of the WTO's consultative board report? That report called for developed countries' governments to show restraint in pursuing regional trade agreements to avoid damaging the multilateral trading system, especially since it warned that such agreements are not as beneficial for developing countries as the EU and US claim?Baroness Rawlings
: My Lords, the National Neighbourhood Watch Association is a charity funded by commercial sponsorship since its establishment in 1995. My honourable friend the Minister of State for Crime Reduction, Policing, Community Safety and Counter-Terrorism has agreed to meet the association to discuss the funding situation. We continue to support grassroots' neighbourhood watch activity through, for example, the funding of free public liability insurance for local groups and a national neighbourhood watch conference in March.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness. I know that my honourable friend will be very interested to hear what the noble Baroness has said.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
359: My Lords, we absolutely agree that the police should and do continue to work very closely with neighbourhood
359Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the Government are giving help to the voluntary sector. In addition, through the crime and disorder reduction partnerships we are able to brigade together local initiatives, local authorities, the statutory sector and the non-statutory sector, and they work together very closely. In addition, good work has now been undertaken by local criminal justice boards. The chief officers are able to analyse and assess the needs of the community better. All of those efforts—the public joining together with the statutory agencies—are making a real difference to safety on our streets and I congratulate them all on their industry and their commitment.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord's comments. We wish the national association well, but we reassure local groups, many of which are not affiliated to the national association, that they will continue, and our support will remain.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
360: My Lords, we will certainly take that into account. I remind noble Lords of what I said about the conference that we are holding in March 2005. The Home Office is also working on a
360Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for outlining in such detail all that this Government have done to make things better. Some people may see the co-ordination of that work as trendy. We see it as essential. I assure the noble Lord that our efforts in that regard will continue, as well as our co-ordination, which is growing better by the day.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
"We know people do not define how safe they feel by crime statistics alone. They define it by how their neighbourhood, their journey to work and their leisure time are affected by so-called anti-social behaviour".Times: My Lords, has the Minister seen the full-page letter in today's edition of the "We know people do not define how safe they feel by crime statistics alone. They define it by how their neighbourhood, their journey to work and their leisure time are affected by so-called anti-social behaviour".TimesBaroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, I very strongly support this amendment. If we are to fulfil the Government's commitment made in the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit report that by 2025 disabled people should have full opportunities and choices to improve their quality of life and be respected and included as equal members of society. Disabled people must be able to get into their houses. As the Minister fully acknowledged in Committee, this issue must be addressed. The Strategy Unit report makes commitments to increasing disabled people's ability to live independently at home. I look forward to hearing positive news of the action that the Government are planning to take to address to this issue.Baroness Wilkins
: My Lords, I, too, added to my name to the amendment and greatly support the spirit behind it. The addition of ramps to buses has so liberated disabled people that it seems necessary that buses should be able to park at stops empty of cars. I support the spirit behind the amendment.Baroness Wilkins
: My Lords, I am extremely grateful to the Minister for that very welcome response. I am delighted that she has accepted the principle that the DRC will issue statutory codes of practice and that it will be able to support cases.Baroness Wilkins
Page 31, line 32, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 32:
Page 31, line 32, at end insert—Baroness Wilkins
409: My Lords, I apologise for being slightly late. I would very strongly like to support the intention behind this amendment. The Government can be very justly proud of the introduction of the public sector duty in this Bill. It will have a major impact on disabled people's lives. Over half of public authorities are schools, so unless the Government
409Baroness Wilkins
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that government pressure on local authorities in the south-east to provide large numbers of new houses will inevitably put pressure on areas that are subject to flood risk? Can he say whether the Government are prepared to invest more in flood defences, or to work with the insurance industry to make sure that low-cost housing in particular is not built on areas that are vulnerable to flooding?Baroness Scott of Needham Market
Times: My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have spoken and especially those who have supported the spirit of the amendment. Yesterday I read in the TimesBaroness Masham of Ilton
371(2B) When assessing the reasonableness of providing equipment under subsection (2A), NHS hospital trusts must not refuse to provide equipment on the grounds of cost alone, unless those costs are grossly disproportionate."""(2A) In determining their duty under subsection (2), NHS hospital trusts shall ensure that adequate equipment is available to enable disabled persons to be diagnosed and treated to the same standards as other persons."( ) In the 1995 Act, after section 21(2) there is inserted—Page 3, line 32, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 4:
371(2B) When assessing the reasonableness of providing equipment under subsection (2A), NHS hospital trusts must not refuse to provide equipment on the grounds of cost alone, unless those costs are grossly disproportionate."""(2A) In determining their duty under subsection (2), NHS hospital trusts shall ensure that adequate equipment is available to enable disabled persons to be diagnosed and treated to the same standards as other persons."( ) In the 1995 Act, after section 21(2) there is inserted—Page 3, line 32, at end insert—Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, I am grateful for the Minister's explanation of these difficult provisions, because there is little in our whole canon of legislation that is more complex than the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, as the noble Lord will recollect from our demanding debates when that legislation was passed. He will recollect that he rightly drew attention to the remedy of a citizen aggrieved by the use of powers under RIPA being justiciable at the behest of the Interception of Communications Commissioner. Initially, the commissioner was not even required to tell a citizen whose information had been improperly purloined that there had been that impropriety. At least we got that change made to the legislation.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
497: My Lords, I am very grateful to all noble Lords who have taken part in this brief but very important debate. Your Lordships come from a very wide range of backgrounds, but all those who have spoken have direct experience of public life in many different forms. I do not think the noble Lord,
497Lord Lester of Herne Hill
498: My Lords, I do not share that anticipation. That is an example of hope and faith over practical experience.498Lord Lester of Herne Hill
483: My Lords, I am very grateful to my noble friend. It occurs to me that I should perhaps have mentioned my own interest and experience. I made two complaints to the PCA—both about the Government's unnecessary secrecy. It took me weeks to find even one of my colleagues in the other place who was not too busy to be able to refer either of
483Lord Lester of Herne Hill
(Lord Lester of Herne Hill.): My Lords, perhaps "filter" was the wrong way to put it. I want to retain the procedure by which the MP can make a direct reference from his constituency. I do that purely pragmatically because it is an easier way to persuade Members of Parliament than to take away their exclusive rights.(Lord Lester of Herne Hill.)Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords. will the Government carry out a complete survey so that they find out the actual position? Secondly, what do they think of the interesting idea of the noble Lord, Lord Cope, whereby one would go first to one's MP, give the MP four weeks so that the filter operated, and if he or she did not refer, then the complaint could be made directly? What is the Government's position on that halfway house, or any other idea to deal with the scandal of the present situation?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
"The Principle of Unripe Time is that people should not do at the moment what they think right at that moment, because the moment at which they think it right has not yet arrived".481"from our public awareness surveys and our stakeholder research … there are problems for access to the Ombudsman for hard to reach groups and that is a real issue for us".480"Members of Parliament continue to have a key role in supporting their constituents when they have problems with public service providers. However, to reinforce the principle of easy access, I believe that citizens should also be allowed direct access to the Parliamentary Ombudsman and I will continue to press for legislative change to allow this to take place"."The fundamental point is … about accessibility and there are issues as well in joint working with colleagues in the Local Government Ombudsman scheme where the MP filter gets in the way of aligning a joint investigation and a joint report because of particular requirements that come out of that, so it is a point of principle … in the 21st Century that a citizen should have direct access to the Ombudsman"."despite numerous reviews and consultations and general agreement on both the need for reform and the necessary changes. the Ombudsman system has not been reformed"."roll-call of talk rather than action",Ombudsman Issues479"The pace of change in the modernisation of government has left behind the public sector ombudsman"."operates in an arbitrary way—some MPs rarely refer complaints to the PCA, while others do so frequently—and it is a hindrance to the ordinary citizen in need of a clear and simple remedy for grievances against the administration".ex gratia478: My Lords, 1 beg to move that this Bill be read a second time. The purpose of the Bill is to make a modern, practical reform; namely, to create a public right of direct access to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration. It is five years since I introduced a similar Private Member's Bill, which also sought to create a direct avenue for members of the public to make complaints about administrative failure and neglect."The Principle of Unripe Time is that people should not do at the moment what they think right at that moment, because the moment at which they think it right has not yet arrived".481"from our public awareness surveys and our stakeholder research … there are problems for access to the Ombudsman for hard to reach groups and that is a real issue for us".480"Members of Parliament continue to have a key role in supporting their constituents when they have problems with public service providers. However, to reinforce the principle of easy access, I believe that citizens should also be allowed direct access to the Parliamentary Ombudsman and I will continue to press for legislative change to allow this to take place"."The fundamental point is … about accessibility and there are issues as well in joint working with colleagues in the Local Government Ombudsman scheme where the MP filter gets in the way of aligning a joint investigation and a joint report because of particular requirements that come out of that, so it is a point of principle … in the 21st Century that a citizen should have direct access to the Ombudsman"."despite numerous reviews and consultations and general agreement on both the need for reform and the necessary changes. the Ombudsman system has not been reformed"."roll-call of talk rather than action",Ombudsman Issues479"The pace of change in the modernisation of government has left behind the public sector ombudsman"."operates in an arbitrary way—some MPs rarely refer complaints to the PCA, while others do so frequently—and it is a hindrance to the ordinary citizen in need of a clear and simple remedy for grievances against the administration".ex gratia478Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I am sure that exactly the same could be said of MPs of the Irish Parliament, the Dail, who, if anything, spend rather more time in their constituencies, yet, as I said, in a small country such as the Irish Republic there is a much larger number of complaints. As a resident of the Irish Republic, I should explain that I am sure that the TD in my area is as vigorous as would be any MP in this country. So that excuse holds no water, with respect.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I must say, first, that person with the most experience of the problem is the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration herself. She will know rather more about the practical problems created by the lack of direct access; that is why she and her predecessors have said again and again that they should be in the same position as the equivalent ombudsmen in other democracies.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
482: My Lords, I am sure that the disease of empire-building extends to Whitehall as well as elsewhere. What troubles me is that, on this issue,
482Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I have not done a detailed comparative cost/benefit analysis of the kind that the noble Lord suggests; of course not. I am simply asking the House to agree with a simple proposition. MPs may retain their right to refer cases where their constituents come to them. They can seek to deal with those complaints as they do now. The Bill will not take away the heavy caseload that they have in their surgeries but where Members of your Lordships' House, for example, or any member of the public, wish to make a complaint, they should not have to find an MP and go through the business of making the complaint through that MP. We may be able to do so, because we know how the system work, or ought to, but an ordinary member of the public who has to do that will be deterred.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I am sorry to press the noble Lord again, but when he is comparing the Irish statistics with those for the United Kingdom, does that take into account the fact that British Members of Parliament now have considerably more resources available to them than is the case in most European parliaments?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, 1 am sorry to press the noble Lord, but he just cited some statistics. Is there not possibly another explanation: that the MPs have successfully dealt with the cases themselves?Lord Campbell-Savours
496: My Lords, will my noble friend help me a little? In deciding upon the response
496Lord Campbell-Savours
488: My Lords, I wish briefly to intervene to support the Bill, which is important. The reality is that, as a Member of Parliament, one was often approached by constituents to raise issues with the
488Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, I rise very briefly as I had not intended to intervene in the debate. I support the noble Lord's Bill; it is a very good one. I intervened simply because I was looking for a little Friday-morning sport in the Chamber and I thought that it would be interesting—Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, my noble friend will he aware of the huge strides made in India, as mentioned in the report to which the noble Lord has just referred. Perhaps Bangladesh is a different kettle of fish, but that is not being discussed today.Lord Lea of Crondall
: Order, my Lords. It may be appropriate for the noble Lord to speak during the gap but we ought probably to go through the speakers' list as it is until that point.Lord Triesman
536535534533532Taking ActionTaking Action,531530: My Lords, first, I, too, would like to thank the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, for introducing this debate and other noble Lords for their contributions. I have spent most of my working life turning up for work on Fridays: I have never thought that it was a disbarment to other people to do so as well. I agree with the assessment made by the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, and her comments about the contribution made by the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, last week.536535534533532Taking ActionTaking Action,531530Lord Triesman
508: My Lords, while of course this order will be passed today and no one will challenge it, it is important that whenever we have an order of this kind before us, we recall that we are dealing with a compromise. It may in terms of the whole business of political reality be an inevitable compromise, but it is a compromise. There can be no doubt that when one is dealing with the issue of asylum ideally no stone should be left unturned to discover whether or not the individual has a case for asylum. There should not be arrangements of administrative convenience that enable us to short-circuit that process of establishing what really are the circumstances of a particular individual.508Lord Judd
485484: My Lords, I rise to support the Bill. Not for the first time, the noble Lord, Lord Lester of Herne Hill, is pursuing and properly persisting in a measure to enhance active citizenship and human rights and to improve democratic procedures. I have one small interest to declare, in that I once headed a non-ministerial government department, the Office of Fair Trading, which was subject two or three times to investigation—via a Member of Parliament, of course—by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration.485484Lord Borrie
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, perhaps I may ask him a question. I think he said that he was proposing to retain the MP filter. In what sense is it a filter if it can be bypassed?Lord Mackay of Clashfern
494: My Lords, I always enjoy the responses of the noble Lord, Lord Cope, to questions and debates. I was not sure at the end of his contribution where the Conservative Party sits on this issue, but perhaps that is a tease for another day.494Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, my understanding is that the commissioner was consulted. We are well aware of her rather public view that further consideration should be given to removing the MP filter.Lord Bassam of Brighton
495: My Lords, I am grateful to all Members of your Lordships' House who have
495Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I am grateful to the three noble Lords who have spoken in this short debate in response to my initial rather lengthy exposition. I wanted to ensure that we put as much information as we could into the public domain. That is why I discussed the rationale and the thinking behind the order in the detail in which I did. I am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for his response to that.Lord Bassam of Brighton
(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)511510[5th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 16 December 2004 be approved (Lord Bassam of Brighton.)511510[5th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Bassam of Brighton
(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)[6th Report from the Joint Committee].5065055045036th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 18 January be approved [(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)[6th Report from the Joint Committee].5065055045036th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Bassam of Brighton
(Lord Bassam of Brighton.[6th Report from the Joint Committee].500499[6th Report from the Joint committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 13 January be approved (Lord Bassam of Brighton.[6th Report from the Joint Committee].500499[6th Report from the Joint committee].Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I take it that the noble Viscount, Lord Bridgeman, agrees with the order, and I take it that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, does too. He raised an issue that is not in front of us today. I have no intention of rehearsing that argument again; we know that there is a clear difference between us, although I respect the noble Lord's use of parliamentary time to raise the issue again. We take a different view, and I do not believe that it is appropriate today to reopen that debate.Lord Bassam of Brighton
(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)[6th Report from the Joint Committee].502[6th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 17 January be approved (Lord Bassam of Brighton.)[6th Report from the Joint Committee].502[6th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I certainly consider that a possibility, but probably the noble Lord would share with me the general view that MPs are really rather good at dealing with complaints. After all, as we have heard today, they have had rather a lot of practice. In my dealings with MPs of all parties, I have found that they are very diligent in this process and take it very seriously. They are not shy of using their wits to make good use of cases to argue for a political view that they hold.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, perhaps the research does show that. However, my point is that most people find MPs quite useful and, when they approach them, they find them able to access the ombudsman service. There is a degree of mystique about the way in which ombudsmen work and that may be one of the issues on which we should focus.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Earl and the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for their comments. I shall try to respond to the points made by the noble Lord, Lord Phillips; I am grateful, as he probably gave us some early indication of at least one of the questions that he was going to ask.Lord Bassam of Brighton
(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)[5th Report from the Joint Committee].[5th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 16 December 2004 be approved (Lord Bassam of Brighton.)[5th Report from the Joint Committee].[5th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Bassam of Brighton
519"who provide them with care and support. They may be nominated by the church, OCV coalition members, or self-nominated to provide care to OVCs on a day-to-day basis. Most caregivers will likely he women and men who arc already visiting vulnerable family members and neighbours on their own or as members of a church group, a women's group. a youth group, or some other community body. These caregivers, who volunteer their time to support [orphans and vulnerable children] and affected households, form the backbone of a strategy for care and support"."Caregivers, also known as home visitors, are individuals living in the same community with the [orphans or vulnerable children]"—518517Averting Catastrophe,: My Lords, although I am sorry that it had to be on a Friday, I congratulate the noble Baroness on securing time for this important Unstarred Question. She was one of the 17 Members of Parliament and Peers of the all-party groups on Africa and AIDS who took part in the inquiry that led to the very readable document, 519"who provide them with care and support. They may be nominated by the church, OCV coalition members, or self-nominated to provide care to OVCs on a day-to-day basis. Most caregivers will likely he women and men who arc already visiting vulnerable family members and neighbours on their own or as members of a church group, a women's group. a youth group, or some other community body. These caregivers, who volunteer their time to support [orphans and vulnerable children] and affected households, form the backbone of a strategy for care and support"."Caregivers, also known as home visitors, are individuals living in the same community with the [orphans or vulnerable children]"—518517Averting Catastrophe,Lord Rea
512: My Lords, I welcome the tightening up of the list of bodies which now have rights under RIPA. At first, I was a bit worried that every time we had name changes in statutory bodies we
512The Earl of Erroll
: My Lords, the noble Lord has not answered the intervention of the noble Lord, Lord Campbell-Savours. In my experience, when I was in the other place, complaints were brought to us that the member of the public thought were relevant to the ombudsman, but were not. They were dealt with by the Member. Will not the noble Lord reflect that that may well be the reason why the situation is different in the United Kingdom from the Republic of Ireland?Lord Naseby
525524Children on the Brink : My Lords, I join in thanking the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, in bringing this critically important issue to the attention of your Lordships' House.525524Children on the Brink Lord St John of Bletso
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for giving way. He makes a compelling case for the ombudsman seeking greater access. My experience of public officials over many years is that once a department gets set up, it suffers from the dreaded disease of empire-building. May there not be a little of that in this case?Lord Hughes of Woodside
: My Lords, I am most grateful to my noble friend for giving way. Lest it be thought that there is a constituency here, a trade union of former MPs who have a single mind on the issue that he has raised, let me say that my experience as a Member of Parliament was that, surprisingly frequently, matters were brought to my attention by members of the public who had not been able to persuade their Member of Parliament that the matter should be raised with the ombudsman. My noble friend's Bill would deal with that problem.Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, this seems to me an admirable order, which we are happy to support.Lord Goodhart
501: My Lords, Article 2 is, in effect, the automatic consequence of the implementation of the European arrest warrant by the states involved, and we have no objection to that.501Lord Goodhart
507: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for the very full explanation he has given of the order's purposes and the principles that lie behind it.507Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend Lord Phillips of Sudbury. As will be obvious, we are not opposing these orders, but my noble friend has raised questions that require answers. Beyond that, I have nothing to add to what he has already said.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, is it not at least possible that among the two-thirds there are a significant number of MPs who do not take their duties in this respect seriously and who sometimes fail to pass on to the PCA perfectly legitimate complaints?Lord Goodhart
490"We believe that the most important consideration is that as many as possible of bona fide grievances against government departments should be impartially investigated by the Parliamentary Commissioner. For this to happen we are convinced that there must be provision for direct access to the Commissioner"."The complicated procedure for access to the Parliamentary Commissioner probably means that articulate and better informed people are more likely to use the Parliamentary Commissioner than are the less articulate or well informed … This poorly informed section of the population is also the section in which most under-privileged people are to be found"."The Parliamentary Commissioner in the United Kingdom is, by contrast, far from accessible. If an individual is well informed enough to think of writing to him, the Parliamentary Commissioner will write hack telling him to take his case to a Member of Parliament. If he is sufficiently determined to do this, the Member of Parliament can nevertheless decline to forward his case to the Parliamentary Commissioner. In this event, the individual can go to another Member but by this time he may well he so discouraged by the process that he gives up. It is from the point of view of the citizen, far from satisfactory that he has to depend on the Member's judgment as to whether or not his complaint is considered by the Parliamentary Commissioner.Our Fettered Ombudsman489: My Lords, I am delighted to reply to this debate on behalf of my party. I have particular pleasure in doing so because I am currently the vice-chairman of the council of Justice, which I should declare as an interest. It was a report published by Justice in 1961, known as the Wyatt report—named after Sir John Wyatt, who wrote it with the support of a high-powered advisory committee—that started the debate which led to the adoption of the ombudsman system under the original Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967.490"We believe that the most important consideration is that as many as possible of bona fide grievances against government departments should be impartially investigated by the Parliamentary Commissioner. For this to happen we are convinced that there must be provision for direct access to the Commissioner"."The complicated procedure for access to the Parliamentary Commissioner probably means that articulate and better informed people are more likely to use the Parliamentary Commissioner than are the less articulate or well informed … This poorly informed section of the population is also the section in which most under-privileged people are to be found"."The Parliamentary Commissioner in the United Kingdom is, by contrast, far from accessible. If an individual is well informed enough to think of writing to him, the Parliamentary Commissioner will write hack telling him to take his case to a Member of Parliament. If he is sufficiently determined to do this, the Member of Parliament can nevertheless decline to forward his case to the Parliamentary Commissioner. In this event, the individual can go to another Member but by this time he may well he so discouraged by the process that he gives up. It is from the point of view of the citizen, far from satisfactory that he has to depend on the Member's judgment as to whether or not his complaint is considered by the Parliamentary Commissioner.Our Fettered Ombudsman489Lord Goodhart
487: My Lords, I support the Bill. I wish to speak briefly on the experience of the Office of the Commissioner for Administrative Complaints (COMAC), or the ombudsman, in Hong Kong. Incidentally, according to my Nordic friends, apparently the present politically correct term is not ombudsman but "ombuds". As noble Lords will already know, the law in Hong Kong was changed in 1994 to allow, among other amendments, direct public access to the commissioner. The purpose and the function of that amendment was to bring COMAC closer to the people. The commissioner argued that there was a barrier between his office and the people he served.487Baroness D'Souza
520: My Lords, I, too, wish to thank the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, for securing this debate. I shall speak briefly on two very different aspects of HIV/AIDS: what field research has revealed about the effects of HIV/AIDS on household income; and the role of broadcasting in educating people about HIV/AIDS more generally. These two separate themes I shall attempt to weave together seamlessly.520Baroness D'Souza
527526: My Lords, I am delighted to wind up for my party in this debate. I, too, congratulate my noble friend Lady Northover on securing the debate, which is of great importance—would that it were not happening on a Friday. Many noble Lords who are not here have said how much they would have liked to have taken part in this debate. Perhaps next time we might be given another day.527526Baroness Neuberger
486: My Lords, I wish to speak very briefly to support the reform proposed in the Bill; namely, to gain direct access for complainants to the Parliamentary Commissioner. I congratulate my noble friend Lord Lester on persisting with the issue. I do not speak as an expert on how the Parliamentary Ombudsman carries out her duties, although I have an interest in the issues as a former member of the Committee on Standards in Public Life and a former colleague of "the redoubtable Ann Abraham", as the noble Lord, Lord Borrie, described her, on that body.486Baroness Neuberger
: My Lords, why, then, does the Parliamentary Ombudsman's own research show that those particular groupings find it more difficult to access their MPs?Baroness Neuberger
522"The simple fact that AIDS kills young adults can have profound implications for the whole economy. By killing young adults, often in the prime of their lives, AIDS has an effect not only on its victims, but on their children. Children of AIDS victims are less able to attend school, and also miss out on the life-skills that parents teach their children. In this way, AIDS cuts off the mechanism by which human capital—the engine of long-term economic growth—is transmitted from one generation to the next. If the outbreak of AIDS causes the next generation to be less educated, it means that they, in turn, are less able to provide for their children's education, and so on".The Macroeconomics of HIV/AIDS,: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lady Northover for this opportunity to discuss one of the greatest challenges facing developing countries—the spread of HIV/AIDS. My thinking in this area is much influenced by having worked for Students Partnership Worldwide, a medium-sized international NGO which runs youth-led peer education programmes in rural communities in five African and two Asian countries severely affected by HIV/AIDS. I will confine most of my remarks to the economic impact of the pandemic and the role of civil society and youth in this area.522"The simple fact that AIDS kills young adults can have profound implications for the whole economy. By killing young adults, often in the prime of their lives, AIDS has an effect not only on its victims, but on their children. Children of AIDS victims are less able to attend school, and also miss out on the life-skills that parents teach their children. In this way, AIDS cuts off the mechanism by which human capital—the engine of long-term economic growth—is transmitted from one generation to the next. If the outbreak of AIDS causes the next generation to be less educated, it means that they, in turn, are less able to provide for their children's education, and so on".The Macroeconomics of HIV/AIDS,Baroness Falkner of Margravine
516"Care provided in institutional settings often fails to meet the developmental and long term needs of children".Children on the Brink,515"the treatment rollout is glacial"."On track to slow the progress of HIV and AIDS by 2015".514Official Report."Pandemic disease threatens to destroy the very structure of states".—[Official Report.asked Her Majesty's Government:516"Care provided in institutional settings often fails to meet the developmental and long term needs of children".Children on the Brink,515"the treatment rollout is glacial"."On track to slow the progress of HIV and AIDS by 2015".514Official Report."Pandemic disease threatens to destroy the very structure of states".—[Official Report.Baroness Northover
529"winning the war [on AIDS] because I don't think the leaders of the world are engaged enough".528Call for Action"the premier disease of mass destruction",: My Lords, I, too, add my thanks to the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, for securing this important debate. From the debate of the noble Baroness, Lady Whitaker, last week, it was clear that we cannot hope to tackle poverty on a global scale without addressing HIV/AIDS. We on these Benches welcome this opportunity to discuss this significant problem in more detail.529"winning the war [on AIDS] because I don't think the leaders of the world are engaged enough".528Call for Action"the premier disease of mass destruction",Baroness Rawlings
"the time has now come to have direct access for individuals to the ombudsman and the filter of having to require Members of Parliament sign off is anachronistic and should be removed".492491: My Lords, it is a pleasure to find myself once again responding to a debate of the noble Lord, Lord Lester, in his assiduous pursuit of various Private Members' Bills and so forth. As he said himself, this proposal has been introduced before in a slightly different form. The noble Lord made it clear that the new form of this Bill is the provision of dual access rather than simply the abolition of the filter."the time has now come to have direct access for individuals to the ombudsman and the filter of having to require Members of Parliament sign off is anachronistic and should be removed".492491Lord Cope of Berkeley
: My Lords, the noble Lord may not have appreciated the fact that we do not anticipate being in opposition for very long.Lord Cope of Berkeley
: Oh.Noble Lords
: My Lords, under the voluntary reporting system then in existence it is clear that the proportion of MRSA isolates in bloodstream infections increased from 4 per cent to 30 per cent from 1993 to 1997. The full national picture became known only after this Government introduced mandatory surveillance of MRSA with effect from April 2001. The data from mandatory reporting have been published from the outset to assist the NHS in tackling this difficult problem.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, if my noble friend is saying that there was a rapid increase in MRSA in the years immediately prior to 1997 and that the then government did not demand to know the full picture, does he share my view that their recent attempts to blame others is a clear-cut case of the Official Opposition seeking to sweep their full responsibility for the increase in MRSA under the hospital bed?Lord Rosser
: My Lords, it is a normal convention that governments are not allowed to see papers relating to previous administrations. However, it is very difficult to escape the conclusion that the Official Opposition did not have their eye on the ball on this issue before 1997. I think that my noble friend's comments are a fair summary of the position.Lord Warner
: My Lords, can the Minister say whether a general election is coming shortly?Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I am very ill informed on the matter.Lord Warner
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that not only has there been a huge increase in the awareness of hospital staff of problems associated with MRSA, hut also a concentration on making visitors to wards aware of the necessity to take proper hygiene precautions? I have been very struck by that when visiting hospitals recently.Baroness Pitkeathley
: My Lords, my noble friend is absolutely right. We have introduced the "Clean Your Hands" campaign which is improving hand hygiene. We have raised awareness by publishing information rather than, as my noble friend said, sweeping the problem under the bed. There is a rising public consciousness, and a consciousness among staff, of the importance of cleanliness and good cross-infection control.Lord Warner
: My Lords, what are the Government doing to control the misuse of antibiotics; and what are medical staff doing to ensure containment of the disease?Lord St John of Bletso
Winning Ways: My Lords, the Chief Medical Officer published his document Winning WaysLord Warner
"the increased throughput of patients to meet performance targets has resulted in considerable pressure towards higher bed occupancy, which is not always consistent with good infection control"?"Nearly three out of every four NHS Trusts with the worst rates of MRSA … have bed occupancy levels exceeding that deemed safe by the Health Protection Agency".?: My Lords, is the Minister aware that the Health Protection Agency has stated:
"the increased throughput of patients to meet performance targets has resulted in considerable pressure towards higher bed occupancy, which is not always consistent with good infection control"?"Nearly three out of every four NHS Trusts with the worst rates of MRSA … have bed occupancy levels exceeding that deemed safe by the Health Protection Agency".?Earl Howe
: My Lords, this Government are proud that they have had some targets—which the Official Opposition wish to sweep away, I understand—which have reduced waiting lists and enabled people in pain, who are suffering and possibly dying, to get into hospital faster. We do not think that there is any conflict between good cross-infection control and good bed management. We have made it clear to trusts and chief executives that they are expected to control both those agendas in the interests of patients.Lord Warner
: My Lords—Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords—Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords—Baroness Barker
: My Lords—Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, we have yet to hear from the Liberal Democrat Benches.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, given the Secretary of State's stated expectation that MRSA rates will halve by 2008, what resources have been given to NHS trusts to implement the new model cleaning contract that he announced in December 2004?Baroness Barker
: My Lords, under this Government NHS allocations have increased over the past couple of years, and for another two to three years will continue to increase on average by about 7.1 per cent in real terms—an unprecedented level of extra funding. After the 2000 NHS Plan we also introduced an extra £68 million for cleaning. We accept that the cost-cutting measures on contracting out carried out by the Official Opposition in the 1980s have not helped hospital cleaning.Lord Warner
: My Lords, while the hand-washing campaign is very important, I have seen one report which indicates that even hospitals with the highest hygiene standards have some of the highest rates of MRSA. What conclusion does the Minister draw from that and what lessons can be learned?Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, it is true that we have a particularly difficult strain of MRSA in this country. However, healthcare-acquired infection rates in this country are not very different from those across Europe. We are continuing to battle against MRSA. The NHS is now responding to the lead given by the Government in this particular area.Lord Warner
: My Lords, does the Minister recall our recent debate when, on that very day, the Secretary of State demonstrated a brand-new machine that was going to vacuum up MRSA and solve the problem? How many of those machines have now been introduced and into how many hospitals?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, I obviously have the sort of collective amnesia that sometimes afflicts the Opposition on the NHS. I do not remember that particular event. I can tell the noble Baroness that we introduced the Rapid Review Panel, which has considered 58 products that have come forward from industry. We have announced the results of that review and are making the best and most effective products available to the NHS through framework contracts via the Purchasing and Supply Agency.Lord Warner
: My Lords—Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, as one who contracted MRSA in an excellent hospital years ago, is it possible—I was certainly given the impression there that it was the case—that there are far too many impositions and interferences in hospital management centrally—I am talking not just about this government but all governments—and that we might get further with fighting MRSA if the hospitals were left with more of the initiative?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
540: Well, my Lords, that is why the Government are shifting the balance of power. We have made guidance and money available and have given a clear lead in the area of cleanliness and MRSA.
540Lord Warner
: My Lords—Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, next Question.Baroness Amos
637"Although the 1921 Act provides for a presumption of openness we are concerned that the Government's new Inquiries Bill creates wide powers for ministers to restrict access to inquiries, making public accessibility subject to restriction notices. This subverts accepted presumptions of openness and public interest and we recommend it should be reversed".: My Lords, I broadly welcome Amendment No. 52 relating to public access to inquiry proceedings and information. It represents a step forward, although I am concerned that it is constrained by Section 17, some of whose provisions can be applied onerously and broadly. However, it depends on the spirit within which these things happen.637"Although the 1921 Act provides for a presumption of openness we are concerned that the Government's new Inquiries Bill creates wide powers for ministers to restrict access to inquiries, making public accessibility subject to restriction notices. This subverts accepted presumptions of openness and public interest and we recommend it should be reversed".Lord Dubs
651"With developments in public law, Human Rights Act considerations about impartiality, and the proposed establishment of a Supreme Court, which involves the institutional separation of the judges from the House of Lords,
651: My Lords, I happened to be in the House, in another part, when the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hutton, was giving the report of his important inquiry. Many senior judges from the supreme court of Israel were present, including the president. I remember that as the noble and learned Lord was giving his important report, they said that they were quite astonished that we allowed judges to be used in such politically sensitive matters and that it was inconceivable that that would happen in the state of Israel.651"With developments in public law, Human Rights Act considerations about impartiality, and the proposed establishment of a Supreme Court, which involves the institutional separation of the judges from the House of Lords,
651Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I beg to move that consideration on Report be now adjourned. Lord Grocott
: My Lords, with permission, there will be a repeated Statement later, entitled Controlling Our Borders—a five-year asylum strategy. It will be repeated by my noble friend Lady Scotland. We shall take the Statement, with agreement, immediately following completion of Report stage of the International Organisations Bill.Lord Grocott
"The legitimacy of the judicial branch ultimately depends upon a reputation of impartiality and non-partisanship. That reputation may not be borrowed by the political branches to cloak their work in the neutral colours of judicial action"."We agree with Lord Woolf's concerns over the current provisions in the Inquiries Bill and recommend that decisions about the appointment of judges to undertake inquiries should be taken co-equally by the Government and the Lord Chief Justice or senior law lord"."Professor Robert Stevens highlighted the irony of a government arguing, on the one hand, for the establishment of a Supreme Court and Judicial Appointments Commission and the abolition of the office of Lord Chancellor, on the grounds that 'the judiciary and politics live in totally different systems and never the twain shall meet', while, on the other, continuing to 'offer the judges on the sacrificial alter of public inquiries, which inevitably have a greater or lesser political content'".650"There is, additionally, an important argument against judges chairing inquiries, based on the separation of powers and closely allied to judicial independence—The expansion of judicial review, the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights…through the Human Rights Act 1998, and the devolution legislation…are likely to increase the number of constitutional issues that come before the courts"."The authority of the judiciary, itself seen as a valuable import into an inquiry, risks being damaged by its aftermath. Those who do not agree with an inquiry's conclusions may not perceive it as independent and objective, regardless of whether the chair is a member of the judiciary…If their reports fail to conclude that ministers and senior officials are to blame, they may be heralded as a 'whitewash' by political opponents and the media and the judge criticised, as Lord Hutton was, for interpreting his terms of reference too narrowly, for being too establishment-minded and for showing a lack of understanding of the political context. If they are critical of ministers and senior officials, they may, like Lord Scott, be accused by government supporters of being antigovernment and having a lack of understanding of how government and the political process work"."The notion of judges as above the political process has also begun to be challenged…Cases such as Pinochet, the conjoined twins and the anti-terrorism legislation have also resulted in the media seeking to position the judges along conservative-liberal and activist-deference spectrums and discussing their religious, educational and ethnic backgrounds"."Given the political nature of the British constitution, judicial skills may not necessarily be the most appropriate where an inquiry concerns the relationship between the government and Parliament"."strongest where the task of the inquiry is solely to find facts. It is less compelling where issues of social or economic policy with political implications are involved'".Government by Inquiry,: My Lords, the Public Administration Committee report, "The legitimacy of the judicial branch ultimately depends upon a reputation of impartiality and non-partisanship. That reputation may not be borrowed by the political branches to cloak their work in the neutral colours of judicial action"."We agree with Lord Woolf's concerns over the current provisions in the Inquiries Bill and recommend that decisions about the appointment of judges to undertake inquiries should be taken co-equally by the Government and the Lord Chief Justice or senior law lord"."Professor Robert Stevens highlighted the irony of a government arguing, on the one hand, for the establishment of a Supreme Court and Judicial Appointments Commission and the abolition of the office of Lord Chancellor, on the grounds that 'the judiciary and politics live in totally different systems and never the twain shall meet', while, on the other, continuing to 'offer the judges on the sacrificial alter of public inquiries, which inevitably have a greater or lesser political content'".650"There is, additionally, an important argument against judges chairing inquiries, based on the separation of powers and closely allied to judicial independence—The expansion of judicial review, the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights…through the Human Rights Act 1998, and the devolution legislation…are likely to increase the number of constitutional issues that come before the courts"."The authority of the judiciary, itself seen as a valuable import into an inquiry, risks being damaged by its aftermath. Those who do not agree with an inquiry's conclusions may not perceive it as independent and objective, regardless of whether the chair is a member of the judiciary…If their reports fail to conclude that ministers and senior officials are to blame, they may be heralded as a 'whitewash' by political opponents and the media and the judge criticised, as Lord Hutton was, for interpreting his terms of reference too narrowly, for being too establishment-minded and for showing a lack of understanding of the political context. If they are critical of ministers and senior officials, they may, like Lord Scott, be accused by government supporters of being antigovernment and having a lack of understanding of how government and the political process work"."The notion of judges as above the political process has also begun to be challenged…Cases such as Pinochet, the conjoined twins and the anti-terrorism legislation have also resulted in the media seeking to position the judges along conservative-liberal and activist-deference spectrums and discussing their religious, educational and ethnic backgrounds"."Given the political nature of the British constitution, judicial skills may not necessarily be the most appropriate where an inquiry concerns the relationship between the government and Parliament"."strongest where the task of the inquiry is solely to find facts. It is less compelling where issues of social or economic policy with political implications are involved'".Government by Inquiry,Lord Kingsland
Page 4, line 13, at end insert "after consultation with the chairman"moved Amendment No. 27:
Page 4, line 13, at end insert "after consultation with the chairman"Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. In those circumstances, I beg leave to withdraw my amendment.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, my understanding was that the House would now rise, it being ten o'clock. Perhaps I was misinformed.Lord Kingsland
Page 3, line 14, leave out subsection (1). moved Amendment No. 23:
Page 3, line 14, leave out subsection (1).Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, it follows ineluctably from what I said earlier that I shall, indeed, beg leave to withdraw my amendment.Lord Kingsland
Page 2, line 9, at end insert ", after consultation with the chairman"moved Amendment No. 10:
Page 2, line 9, at end insert ", after consultation with the chairman"Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I have nothing to add to what the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, has said.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for his response. In those circumstances, I am happy to beg leave to withdraw my amendment.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, perhaps I may seek clarification. The parliamentary commission as defined in the report would not involve any party being in the majority or even party politicians having dominance. Perhaps the noble Lord might wish to reflect on that in the context.Lord Kingsland
"Parliament now has to decide whether it wants to reclaim territory it has lost as far as inquiries of this kind are concerned, becoming once again the Grand Inquest of the Nation, or whether it is content to abandon the field to others, and to the executive. If it chooses the former. then this report offers a means of doing so".627: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for her response and to all noble and noble and learned Lords who have spoken."Parliament now has to decide whether it wants to reclaim territory it has lost as far as inquiries of this kind are concerned, becoming once again the Grand Inquest of the Nation, or whether it is content to abandon the field to others, and to the executive. If it chooses the former. then this report offers a means of doing so".627Lord Kingsland
"The similarity in form of the Franks and Butler Committees with that of a Joint Committee is striking but, as committees of Privy Counsellors, their nature is fundamentally different and, from a constitutional point of view less satisfactory. We recommend that in future inquiries into the conduct and actions of government should exercise their authority through the legitimacy of Parliament in the form of a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry composed of parliamentarians and others, rather than by the exercise of the prerogative power of the Executive".618"Members also participate in supervisory committees based on statute such as the Intelligence and Security Committee and the Privy Counsellors required to review the Anti-terrorism, Crime
618"the other problem about Parliament is that—parliamentarians are not accustomed to truth-seeking interrogation, they are more inclined to grand-standing as interrogators"."Parliament is actually run by a government and the whips are very powerful and Members of Parliament arc very ambitious. If you tell me how to turn human nature on its head—I have no way of coping with that"."It would be a remedy to a number of the problems that there arc, as it seems to me, at the moment in regard to Ministerial accountability, if Select Committees were treated in the same way as my own Inquiry was treated…If it had been the case that Select Committees had been able to obtain all the advantages of documents and evidence and witnesses who had it to give that I was able to obtain, I do think a Select Committee might have been a better form for the Inquiry to have taken".617"This procedural framework should itself ideally be enshrined in a Resolution, which would contain a presumption in favour of a parliamentary commission … as the most appropriate form for an inquiry of this kind. Accordingly we recommend that Clause 1 should be amended to provide for parliamentary resolutions where the events causing public concern which may have occurred involve the conduct of Ministers. We further recommend that the procedural framework for an inquiry called under this new sub-clause which we have described should be the subject of a Parliamentary Resolution once the Bill has passed into law"."We are deeply concerned that the Government's Inquiries Bill threatens the last remaining role for Parliament in the inquiry process. Nonetheless it also provides an opportunity to update the current provision contained in the 1921 Act to reflect our recommendations for parliamentary involvement. To achieve this we propose that Clause 1 should be amended by means of an additional sub-clause to provide that, where the public concern relates to the conduct, actions or inactions of government—Ministers or officials, the Minister will cause an inquiry to be called on the basis of a Resolution of both Houses of Parliament".616Government by Inquiry.Page 1, line 3, at beginning insert "Subject to subsections (1A) and (1B)," moved Amendment No. 1:
"The similarity in form of the Franks and Butler Committees with that of a Joint Committee is striking but, as committees of Privy Counsellors, their nature is fundamentally different and, from a constitutional point of view less satisfactory. We recommend that in future inquiries into the conduct and actions of government should exercise their authority through the legitimacy of Parliament in the form of a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry composed of parliamentarians and others, rather than by the exercise of the prerogative power of the Executive".618"Members also participate in supervisory committees based on statute such as the Intelligence and Security Committee and the Privy Counsellors required to review the Anti-terrorism, Crime
618"the other problem about Parliament is that—parliamentarians are not accustomed to truth-seeking interrogation, they are more inclined to grand-standing as interrogators"."Parliament is actually run by a government and the whips are very powerful and Members of Parliament arc very ambitious. If you tell me how to turn human nature on its head—I have no way of coping with that"."It would be a remedy to a number of the problems that there arc, as it seems to me, at the moment in regard to Ministerial accountability, if Select Committees were treated in the same way as my own Inquiry was treated…If it had been the case that Select Committees had been able to obtain all the advantages of documents and evidence and witnesses who had it to give that I was able to obtain, I do think a Select Committee might have been a better form for the Inquiry to have taken".617"This procedural framework should itself ideally be enshrined in a Resolution, which would contain a presumption in favour of a parliamentary commission … as the most appropriate form for an inquiry of this kind. Accordingly we recommend that Clause 1 should be amended to provide for parliamentary resolutions where the events causing public concern which may have occurred involve the conduct of Ministers. We further recommend that the procedural framework for an inquiry called under this new sub-clause which we have described should be the subject of a Parliamentary Resolution once the Bill has passed into law"."We are deeply concerned that the Government's Inquiries Bill threatens the last remaining role for Parliament in the inquiry process. Nonetheless it also provides an opportunity to update the current provision contained in the 1921 Act to reflect our recommendations for parliamentary involvement. To achieve this we propose that Clause 1 should be amended by means of an additional sub-clause to provide that, where the public concern relates to the conduct, actions or inactions of government—Ministers or officials, the Minister will cause an inquiry to be called on the basis of a Resolution of both Houses of Parliament".616Government by Inquiry.Page 1, line 3, at beginning insert "Subject to subsections (1A) and (1B),"Lord Kingsland
604603Hansard602601: My Lords, it is with some trepidation that I follow two former Treasury Ministers. I have been a long-term advocate of merging the Inland Revenue and the Customs department and I welcome the Gus O'Donnell report. I point out to the noble Lord, Lord Barnett, that Mr David Varney provided an additional submission to the O'Donnell review, which can be found in the appendix, when he had already given his ideas of how he saw the merger going forward. He gave a good deal of thought to what is likely to happen even before he was formally appointed in December.604603Hansard602601Lord Brooke of Alverthorpe
acquis communautaire.Daily Telegraph561560: My Lords, I feel bound to support the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, in his amendment and in the remarks that he has just made. He very often makes those remarks, because he
acquis communautaire.Daily Telegraph561560Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, Mr Mandelson was speaking as a European Commissioner. That is the question I was asking. If he is speaking in his capacity as a European Commissioner, is he exempt from being sued for libel if he makes a libellous statement? That is the question, and I should like an answer to it.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
563: My Lords, when European Commissioners comment on John Humphrys they do not do so as European Commissioners. No one is exempt in that way.563Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I am afraid that 1 am liable to disappoint all three of the noble Lords who have spoken because I do not intend to debate the issue of European integration. I do not intend to reopen some of the questions that have been asked because they are nothing whatever to do with this Bill. It is not a discussion of whether Europe has effectively become a unitary government. The Government are absolutely clear—we have always been clear and could not be clearer—that the EU is an organisation made up of independent nation states. That will continue to be the case.Lord Triesman
569568: My Lords, I rise slowly because I know the enthusiasm of some noble Lords to take part in the debate. This amendment—I will deal with the second amendment in the group in a moment—would mean that the Government's ability to meet their international obligations and commitments would be seriously delayed. I will reflect shortly on the consequences of such a delay.569568Lord Triesman
: My Lords, my reply was about priorities. Even within the course of one year, it hardly seems the most vital thing that we could achieve in the international community. My noble friend offered a meeting in which the matter could be explored further. I urge noble Lords to take up that offer as a serious one that would certainly be relevant.Lord Triesman
555: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Rawlings, for her kind remarks about me—to say that anything I said was wise was always going to tempt me. I should probably congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Wallace, on flattering the noble Lord, Lord Kerr. If the debate had gone on any longer, we could probably have included all noble Lords in the House. I should like to start by making a general comment about why we confer privileges and immunities on organisations and bodies, including the ones that we are discussing today, and then turn to the substance of the noble Baroness's amendment.555Lord Triesman
: My Lords, due to the start time of this Report stage, may I inquire whether there is any truth in the rumour that, essentially, it is to be treated as dinner-hour business?Lord Ackner
"Parliament now has to decide whether it wants to reclaim territory it has lost as far as inquiries of this kind are concerned, becoming once again the Grand Inquest of the Nation, or whether it is content to abandon the field to others, and to the executive. If it chooses the former, then this report offers a means of doing so".623(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries.
(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries."as it stands raises a number of serious concerns:
(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries.
(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries.: My Lords, I should like to support the submissions made by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. Before I do so, I should confess that my credentials for speaking on inquiries are now somewhat moth-eaten. In the two or three years before I was elevated to the High Court, I appeared in three inquiries, as a result of which I was known by my alleged friends as the "disaster QC"."Parliament now has to decide whether it wants to reclaim territory it has lost as far as inquiries of this kind are concerned, becoming once again the Grand Inquest of the Nation, or whether it is content to abandon the field to others, and to the executive. If it chooses the former, then this report offers a means of doing so".623(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries.
(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries."as it stands raises a number of serious concerns:
(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries.
(d) As a result it does nothing to address the broader, more constitutional, issues about the circumstances in which Ministers should call an inquiry and determine its terms of reference and form. There is an assumption that one size fits all despite the acknowledgment of the wide variety of circumstances which apply.(c) The legislation does not address the wider questions we posed at the beginning of this report about the purpose and nature of inquiries.(b) It strengthens the Executive's position by enabling ministers not just to decide on the form and personnel of an inquiry before it has begun but also influence its operation. For example in creating powers to end or suspend inquiries (clauses 12 and 13), as well as to withdraw funding in cases where ministers believe an inquiry is going beyond its terms of reference, it calls into question the independence of inquiries and means that ministers rather than chairs, as now, are interpreters of the terms of reference. In so doing the new legislation subverts the safeguards which were introduced when the original 1921 Act was debated.(a) By abolishing the 1921 Act it finally removes the opportunity for formal parliamentary involvement in inquiries.Lord Ackner
: My Lords, just before I leave, I would like to say that it is astonishing that this issue has been raised at all. A judge is contemplated being removed from the strength of the judiciary yet the Lord Chief Justice is only to be consulted and his consent is not being required. It is he who can make a balanced assessment of what may be the effect of the decision, especially where the judge who will deal with the case is likely to be attacked whichever way he decides. Such criticism would not only reflect on the judge when he returns to get on with his ordinary judicial duties, but it can erode confidence in the whole system and that is not a matter on which the Minister should have a total monopoly in decision. It is quite unarguable to say that the Minister can override the views of the Lord Chief Justice. His concurrence must be obtained. If it is not obtained, there should be no appointment.Lord Ackner
: My Lords, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Ackner
"By concentrating power in a single government official who will have control over the terms of reference and disclosure of information related to the inquiry, there is a loss of the accountability necessary to a successful inquiry".644"Government Minister would have complete authority over the scope of an inquiry, the selection of panel members, public access to the inquiry and whether any resultant findings would be made public"."the ability to establish inquiries into matters of public concern and hands over all power over such inquiries to the Executive".Leave out Clause 5. moved Amendment No. 17:
"By concentrating power in a single government official who will have control over the terms of reference and disclosure of information related to the inquiry, there is a loss of the accountability necessary to a successful inquiry".644"Government Minister would have complete authority over the scope of an inquiry, the selection of panel members, public access to the inquiry and whether any resultant findings would be made public"."the ability to establish inquiries into matters of public concern and hands over all power over such inquiries to the Executive".Leave out Clause 5.Lord Ackner
593592: My Lords, there are clear advantages in having a single body responsible for the administration of the tax system. This merger—or integration, as the noble and learned Lord put it—should be taken as an opportunity to rationalise and harmonise the different procedures of both departments.593592Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, will the noble Baroness confirm that we need to operate within the limits set out by the qualification directive of the European Council and of the Hague programme, on which Caroline Flint, her colleague in the Home Office, answered questions only a couple of weeks ago? Bearing that in mind, do any of the proposals require us to seek a variation or amendment of the qualification directive or the Hague programme, or is everything that the Minister said today within the limits of what the Government have already done? On a quick reading, it looked as though the report was simply a summary of measures taken by the Government over the past few years and not an announcement of anything new, but I am open to correction if that is wrong.Lord Avebury
542: My Lords, will the Minister remind the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, that the UNHCR itself initiated a two-year consultation on the interpretation
542Lord Avebury
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that, when he gives that immensely reassuring answer on our commitment to the convention, we should all remember that in our serious commitment to spreading democracy and human rights throughout world, how we perform toward the victims of tyranny is one way by which we shall be judged?Lord Judd
: My Lords, does my noble friend accept that it is very encouraging to hear her heavy emphasis in the Statement on the positive contribution made by migration, and that the ascendancy of positive over negative language in that context is crucial to the success of migration policy and good race relations policy in this country? Does she not agree that a transparently fair migration system is crucial in the age of global terrorism so that increasing numbers of alienated, disillusioned people do not become recruiting fodder for extremist manipulators?Lord Judd
"We agree with and endorse the view that the use of 'wing members' brings expertise, reassurance, support and protection to inquiry chairs. We particularly recommend the use of panels in politically sensitive cases as a non-statutory means of enhancing the perception of fairness and impartiality in the inquiry process. We also recommend that where judges are seen as the most appropriate chair, they should usually be appointed as part of the panel or be assisted by expert assessors or wing members"630"a spread of expertise will almost always be desirable"."enhance public confidence in the fairness of the process and in the inquiry's conclusions. They can afford the inquiry chairman helpful support and some protection against errors of judgment, in matters of both substance and procedure".Official Report,'I have also found their judgments on more mundane factual issues consistently shrewd and realistic"'.—[Official Report,"'drawing on their experience and expertise. They have contributed invaluable insights and guidance'.629628( ) In deciding whether or not an inquiry can acceptably be conducted by a chairman alone, the Minister must have regard to the considerations specified in section 7."(b) by a chairman alone."(a) by a chairman with one or more other members, orPage 2, line 3, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert—moved Amendment No. 6:
"We agree with and endorse the view that the use of 'wing members' brings expertise, reassurance, support and protection to inquiry chairs. We particularly recommend the use of panels in politically sensitive cases as a non-statutory means of enhancing the perception of fairness and impartiality in the inquiry process. We also recommend that where judges are seen as the most appropriate chair, they should usually be appointed as part of the panel or be assisted by expert assessors or wing members"630"a spread of expertise will almost always be desirable"."enhance public confidence in the fairness of the process and in the inquiry's conclusions. They can afford the inquiry chairman helpful support and some protection against errors of judgment, in matters of both substance and procedure".Official Report,'I have also found their judgments on more mundane factual issues consistently shrewd and realistic"'.—[Official Report,"'drawing on their experience and expertise. They have contributed invaluable insights and guidance'.629628( ) In deciding whether or not an inquiry can acceptably be conducted by a chairman alone, the Minister must have regard to the considerations specified in section 7."(b) by a chairman alone."(a) by a chairman with one or more other members, orPage 2, line 3, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert—Lord Howe of Aberavon
635: My Lords, I am grateful to all those Members of the House who have contributed to the debate. I shall respond first of all to the noble Lord, Lord Laming. Where a panel consists of the chairman alone, it is clear that, however many assessors he may have, the panel report is his responsibility beyond doubt. That was the case for the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hutton. I well understand the case that was made, and do not intend any disrespect by putting my proposition in a slightly different light.635Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, when I saw the pair of amendments coupled together, I thought for a moment that the noble Baroness had shot my fox—God forbid the thought. In fact, she has done exactly the opposite; she has enabled the principle for which I argued to be put into its proper perspective. I am most grateful to her for achieving this ingenious way of shooting the fox but enabling its resurrection.Lord Howe of Aberavon
"We recommend that Ministers should announce a broad budget figure early on at the start of an inquiry. Any increases over the announced limits would then need to be publicly explained at the end of the inquiry when final costs are published"."I understand that estimates were prepared at the outset"."it is up to each Department whose minister sets up an inquiry to discuss with the chairman matters such as estimated duration of the inquiry and estimated costs"."(d) an estimate of the likely cost of the inquiry".641: My Lords, my Amendment No. 19 is included in this group; it is an amendment to government Amendment No. 18. It relates to costs, on which we had extensive deliberations in Committee. I attempted to press the Minister for an explanation of what budgeting process goes into the setting up of inquiries. I note that there are provisions in the Bill to get a grip on costs. I note the new provision introducing a requirement for the chairman to have regard to costs and a requirement in Clause 36 to publish final costs. Those are all well and good, but the fact that we now know, more or less, how much the Bloody Sunday inquiry will cost when it is finished does not alter the fact that a very disproportionate sum has been spent.
"We recommend that Ministers should announce a broad budget figure early on at the start of an inquiry. Any increases over the announced limits would then need to be publicly explained at the end of the inquiry when final costs are published"."I understand that estimates were prepared at the outset"."it is up to each Department whose minister sets up an inquiry to discuss with the chairman matters such as estimated duration of the inquiry and estimated costs"."(d) an estimate of the likely cost of the inquiry".641Viscount Goschen
: My Lords, would the noble Baroness therefore be willing to give an undertaking that that budgeting process—whether it occurs under my amendment at the beginning, or shortly after the beginning, of the inquiry, as the Public Accounts Committee recommends—and figure would be published?Viscount Goschen
622: My Lords, I believe that that is perfectly true. It brings us to what we have to discuss on other amendments, and which we discussed to some extent in Grand Committee: what the Government have to do, if anything, to inform Parliament of their proposal to set up an inquiry. Since Committee, the
622Lord Borrie
"Parliament itself has unfettered powers to summon persons papers and records which it can delegate at will".621Government by Inquiry: My Lords, we have all had some opportunity to look at the important Public Administration Select Committee report, published last week, entitled "Parliament itself has unfettered powers to summon persons papers and records which it can delegate at will".621Government by InquiryLord Borrie
"only 50 per cent of the employees in … local government … were aware of the Public Interest Disclosure Act, and the protection this affords an employee",: My Lords, has the Minister noticed the statement made in the report that,
"only 50 per cent of the employees in … local government … were aware of the Public Interest Disclosure Act, and the protection this affords an employee",Lord Borrie
648"The Lord Chief Justice will be responsible for the posting and roles of individual judges, within the framework set by the Secretary of State".647: My Lords, you will not be surprised to hear that I endorse every word that my noble and learned friend, the Lord President of the Court of Session, has uttered. His view coincides entirely with my own feelings on the matter.648"The Lord Chief Justice will be responsible for the posting and roles of individual judges, within the framework set by the Secretary of State".647Lord Woolf
649: My Lords, I know that before the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor asked me to conduct the inquiry into the death of Dr Kelly, his permanent secretary told the senior Law Lord, the noble and learned Lord, Lord Bingham, that he was proposing to do so, and the noble and learned Lord raised no objection. In addition—and on this point I am perhaps slightly differing from the noble and learned Lord, Lord Fraser—I believe that there is a practical consideration, in that a judge is unlikely to accept an appointment if he knows that the Lord Chief
649Lord Hutton
"allegations that the intelligence in the September dossier had knowingly been embellished, and hence over the good faith of the Government. Lord Hutton dismissed those allegations. We should record that we, too, have seen no evidence that would support any such allegations".633632: My Lords, the Public Administration Select Committee, in a very interesting and thoughtful report, has made recommendations which, as the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe, has remarked, gives support to this amendment. I should like to make some comments on the amendment and on the recommendations in the committee's report."allegations that the intelligence in the September dossier had knowingly been embellished, and hence over the good faith of the Government. Lord Hutton dismissed those allegations. We should record that we, too, have seen no evidence that would support any such allegations".633632Lord Hutton
: My Lords, I answered the question perfectly satisfactorily. I made it clear that, although the language of the convention is old, drafted a long time ago for a different period and, as I said, is not open-ended—although when one raises that, one may still be attacked for it—the problem from which we were suffering in this country was abuse of the convention. That is why we have sought, sometimes with the co-operation of our European partners and other countries, to close the loopholes and end the abuse of the convention.Lord Rooker
: Yes, my Lords, but we have also accepted that the convention itself, in some ways because of its age, cannot cope with all today's problems. We must deal with them in other ways, as we have sought to do. We have developed plans with the UN High Commissioner and our European partners because, by and large, although it is not the case with everybody, in order to arrive in the United Kingdom, people by definition have travelled through safe countries. That issue must be, and is being, addressed.Lord Rooker
: No, my Lords, I have not and I do not think that the Government have. It is for the Opposition to work that out.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, he has promoted, guided and led umpteen legislative changes, which have cut by over a half the number of those reaching this country and claiming asylum.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I agree entirely with my noble friend.Lord Rooker
: No, my Lords, we have accepted that. That has nothing to do with the dates. The noble Baroness's party would withdraw from the convention, as has recently been made clear. We have no plans for that. We are seeking to tackle how the convention can be abused. We have a record of legislative change in the past four years, with others possibly to be announced today, to bring that about: to stop the abuse of the convention, not to opt out of it.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, we have accepted that there are problems with the convention and the language in which it is written.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, bearing in mind the Statement to be made later this afternoon, I have to ask the noble Lord to wait for that Statement. The Home Secretary has a Statement that will be repeated in this House, so we shall have plenty of time to question it.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the answer is no. We have no plans to withdraw from or renegotiate the 1951 refugee convention. It is part of the legal and ethical framework that enshrines basic principles of human decency through which all countries meet their obligations. A better and more realistic way of addressing today's protection issues is to adopt effective domestic asylum procedures and to work with other governments and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
596"Clause 18 sets out the statutory duty of officers. Commissioners (and others acting on their behalf …) not to disclose information held by HMRC unless authorised to do so"."enable information acquired by HMRC in connection with a function to be used for any of its other functions … Management controls ensure that the use of the information will be appropriate and proportionate".595"It provides that powers previously available to the Commissioners of Customs and Excise and their officers may not be used for these former Inland Revenue functions, while powers previously available to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue and
595"The Bill identifies all of the functions previously carried out by the Inland Revenue" —Official Report,"The new department will have more than 30 million taxpayers and stakeholders, of which 4 million are businesses. HMRC will collect more than £400 billion a year in receipts and pay out over £25 billion in tax credits and child benefit. The costs of running HMRC will amount to some £4.8 billion a year, and the department will have nearly 100,000 staff; 20 per cent of the civil service".—[Official Report,594: My Lords, I welcome my noble and learned friend the Attorney-General to our debate on the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise. As we normally say after maiden speeches, we look forward to hearing him again often in our debates on these matters.596"Clause 18 sets out the statutory duty of officers. Commissioners (and others acting on their behalf …) not to disclose information held by HMRC unless authorised to do so"."enable information acquired by HMRC in connection with a function to be used for any of its other functions … Management controls ensure that the use of the information will be appropriate and proportionate".595"It provides that powers previously available to the Commissioners of Customs and Excise and their officers may not be used for these former Inland Revenue functions, while powers previously available to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue and
595"The Bill identifies all of the functions previously carried out by the Inland Revenue" —Official Report,"The new department will have more than 30 million taxpayers and stakeholders, of which 4 million are businesses. HMRC will collect more than £400 billion a year in receipts and pay out over £25 billion in tax credits and child benefit. The costs of running HMRC will amount to some £4.8 billion a year, and the department will have nearly 100,000 staff; 20 per cent of the civil service".—[Official Report,594Lord Barnett
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, 1,400 Dutch troops are leaving. Is the Minister really satisfied that the 600 British troops required to backfill are enough, and that the important commitment to the training of the Iraqi security forces continues unaffected?Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, I remind the House of my peripheral interest. For how many years have we been operating outside the defence planning assumptions?Earl Attlee
: My Lords, will the Minister now answer my noble friend and say what the Prime Minister has done?Earl Attlee
: My Lords, the committee's 10th report was published on 19 January. We will give it careful and thorough consideration and respond in due course.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, Dame Rennie Fritchie has done a first-class job, as everybody in government acknowledges. We greatly respect her views on all those matters. We will all benefit a great deal if we think long and hard about her record and reputation. Of course we want to ensure the highest possible standards in public appointments.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, the noble Lord makes a very good point in drawing attention to that part of the report. We will give it a great deal of thought. The noble Lord is right: much more will need to be done to ensure that people understand the importance of that protection; and, indeed, that much more knowledge about best practice is shared.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I am sure that the noble Lord will not be surprised to hear me say that it would be premature for me to comment on those matters. They will obviously be part of the Government's broad consideration of this very important, detailed report. We will make our response fully available and open for debate in due course.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, we have been looking carefully at the matter. As I am sure the noble Lord will appreciate, it will be among the issues that come up for debate and will be part of our consideration of this report.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, we take very careful account of comments and views expressed, particularly from respected persons such as Sir Alan Budd. No doubt they will form an important part of our response.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, it would be premature of me to make a big comment on that, but—certainly from my own experience—I am rather drawn to agree with the noble Baroness's first set of observations. It will be part of an important debate and perhaps needs to be looked at again.Lord Bassam of Brighton
631: My Lords, I strongly support Amendments Nos. 7 and 8, in particular, proposed by my noble and learned friend Lord Howe. It is a long time ago and he may have forgotten this but, although Lord Denning's report into the Profumo problem was widely acclaimed by the public and was indeed a bestseller, some people said that it might have been rather better if he had had wingmen of one form or another.631Lord Donaldson of Lymington
: My Lords, I do not want to take up much time, but in terms of mothballed or moth-eaten experience, probably I can do better than my noble and learned friend Lord Ackner. I was Crown Counsel, albeit in a very junior capacity, in the bank rate tribunal—I do not have any idea when that took place, except that it was a very long time ago—and the Vassall inquiry.Lord Donaldson of Lymington
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Stoddart, that this House was the first to recognise the dangers of the European arrest warrant and that the House of Commons woke up to the dangers of that warrant late in the day. However, I should like briefly to ask the noble Lord, Lord Triesman, a question. Will the members of the bodies concerned and their families be exempt from parking restrictions and parking fines, in addition to the many tax and import duty privileges that are being afforded to them?Lord Monson
: My Lords, I am relieved by and appreciate the Minister's reply. Bearing in mind the Statement to be made later this afternoon, may we have the Government's wholehearted commitment to upholding our place in the 1951 convention, which was approved at the time by all parties in this House and was introduced and ratified on 11 March 1954 by Sir Winston Churchill's Conservative government?Lord Roberts of Llandudno
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Roberts of Llandudno
"This Act shall not enter into force until a report has been published",: My Lords, in the context of the questions that I put to the noble Lord, would the Government find it easier to accept the amendment if, instead of stating:
"This Act shall not enter into force until a report has been published",Lord Pearson of Rannoch
559Official Report.WA 33.Official Report,"The provisions of the protocol have also been applied to bodies created under the Community and to certain officials and staff engaged in the work of such bodies".—[WA 33.Official Report,"the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors … the European Central Bank, the European Monetary Institute and the European Investment Bank; and … to certain representatives of member states and certain officials and servants of the Communities"."immunity from jurisdiction, exemption from taxation, exemption from customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions on importation and exportation of articles for official use".558Leave out Clause 5. moved Amendment No. 3:
559Official Report.WA 33.Official Report,"The provisions of the protocol have also been applied to bodies created under the Community and to certain officials and staff engaged in the work of such bodies".—[WA 33.Official Report,"the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors … the European Central Bank, the European Monetary Institute and the European Investment Bank; and … to certain representatives of member states and certain officials and servants of the Communities"."immunity from jurisdiction, exemption from taxation, exemption from customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions on importation and exportation of articles for official use".558Leave out Clause 5.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
566: My Lords, I hope it does not embarrass the noble Lord, Lord Wallace, too much if I rise to support these amendments. I can see that, if accepted, this process might have the effect of getting some of the more unjustifiable of these immunities and privileges to wither on the vine over a period of time, which would he better than nothing.
566Lord Pearson of Rannoch
564HansardHansard.: My Lords, I am most grateful to noble Lords who supported this amendment and to the Minister for his very full reply, which will justify study in 564HansardHansard.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, I suspect that I am speaking for the whole House when I say that if all of the noble Baroness's nine siblings are or were in this country, it is or would be a better place. How can it be that after eight years of this Government they are able now to announce electronic control methods for our ports for exit and entry? The Minister will be aware that I have asked many questions over the years on that subject.Lord Marlesford
"( ) Before appointing a member to the inquiry panel (otherwise than as chairman) the Minister must consult the person he has appointed, or proposes to appoint, as chairman."Page 2, line 11, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 11:
"( ) Before appointing a member to the inquiry panel (otherwise than as chairman) the Minister must consult the person he has appointed, or proposes to appoint, as chairman."Page 2, line 11, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
640: My Lords, I hope again that I shall be able to satisfy the noble Lord,
640Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
639: My Lords, I hope I shall be able to satisfy the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. The amendment that the Government propose would compel the Minister to consult the chairman or the person he wishes to appoint as chairman before appointing a member, or a further member, of the inquiry panel. We had a full discussion of that point in Committee and, having considered what noble Lords have said about the need for a statutory requirement, we have tabled Amendment No. 11 to address the point.639Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, first, I welcome the Government's commitment not to derogate from the Geneva Convention. That is an important announcement, which my noble friend has reiterated.Lord Desai
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that it is important to have a wide spread of coalition forces in Iraq to lend greater weight to the international effort? We have mentioned three countries. What other countries are making significant contributions to the operation in Iraq?Lord Boyce
580"Migration for work, migration for study, is a good thing … What is wrong is when the system isn't properly policed, and people are coming here who are a burden on the society, and it is that which we intend to drive out".579578: My Lords, we have had four attempts on immigration and asylum policy in the past 10 years, and we still do not have it right. It is not surprising. The constant emphasis on the numbers game clouds the real issues facing the Government. I say right away that the issues will not go away.580"Migration for work, migration for study, is a good thing … What is wrong is when the system isn't properly policed, and people are coming here who are a burden on the society, and it is that which we intend to drive out".579578Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, has the Minister worked out the implications of the Opposition's statement about withdrawal from the UN Convention on Refugees for our European partners and the European Court?Lord Dholakia
Times: My Lords, does the Minister recollect that my noble friend asked him a question? He did not give an answer. What exactly did the Prime Minister do to fulfil his undertaking in the article in the TimesLord Tebbit
: My Lords, of the coalition troops that are not American, what proportion are British?Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
: My Lords, I support my noble friend's proposal. I hope that the Government think that it is a useful provision because, although there is often a terrific demand out there for inquiries into this or that, possibly enthusiasm for such inquiries would he modified if people appreciated that it would cost them a significant sum and that public funds might be better spent elsewhere.Lord Fraser of Carmyllie
: My Lords, in the Grand Committee I supported a comparable amendment. At that time, I knew the views of neither of the noble and learned Lords, Lord Cullen and Lord Woolf, or whether they would agree to the desirability of their consent being obtained. I once again wish to support the amendment. Like the noble and learned Lord, Lord Woolf, I am not particularly bothered which amendment is preferred, as they both seem to secure the same result.Lord Fraser of Carmyllie
615614613612: My Lords, I begin by expressing appreciation to all noble Lords who have spoken for their thoughtful contributions and, generally speaking, for their support of the Bill and its principal elements. The support from my noble friends Lord Sheldon and Lord Barnett was somewhat more cautious, but the fact that noble Lords with so much experience from all sides have spoken—from the staff side, my noble friend Lord Brooke; from the perspective of employment within the organisation, the noble Lord, Lord Newby; from the prosecution and criminal justice side, the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford; and from particular responsibilities within the Inland Revenue, the noble Baroness, Lady Noakes—has left me somewhat humbled at being invited into this small and select group. I am looking forward to piloting the Bill to the successful conclusion referred to by the noble Lord, Lord Newby. That is my overriding concern.615614613612Lord Goldsmith
(Lord Goldsmith.)591590589588: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.(Lord Goldsmith.)591590589588The Attorney-General (Lord Goldsmith)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her Statement, but, as someone who was involved in the passage of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, I am puzzled why, if the situation is as serious as the Government suggest, it was not brought before the House in 2002. The noble Baroness used the analogy of a long period of gestation; we can certainly understand that, but perhaps now we are talking not about the birth of a first child but about the birth of a fourth child.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
607606"It will be a challenge to keep a long-term focus on the effectiveness prizes and not fall prey to the temptation to substitute short-term cost reduction objectives".esprit de corps605: My Lords, as my noble friend Lord Thomas of Gresford has already said, we on these Benches broadly welcome this Bill. We also welcome the decision to have two bites at the legislative cherry and to have a period of consultation on many of the issues that will need to be resolved as the new department is established, not least the question of powers.607606"It will be a challenge to keep a long-term focus on the effectiveness prizes and not fall prey to the temptation to substitute short-term cost reduction objectives".esprit de corps605Lord Newby
Official Report,"No government initiative (including legislation) dependent on IT to be announced before analysis of risks'".—[Official Report,Hansard600Hansard,599598 Official Report,"a quantitative analysis of the costs and benefits".—[ Official Report,597Official Report,"the least corrupt revenue service of any major country in the world",—[Official Report,: My Lords, my noble friend commented on the important speech made by the Attorney-General and I welcome what he said, especially when he mentioned that there was a change in the approach to this matter from what we thought were the main financial aspects to some of the legal consequences, which I had not gone into. He said that it was a huge job; it is an ongoing job. I can see that there are a number of matters to be dealt with over a long period of time, but I had not realised quite how long that time was likely to be. The implication of my noble and learned friend the Attorney-General was that it was rather longer than we had heard from Dawn Primarolo in the debate in the House of Commons on 8 December.Official Report,"No government initiative (including legislation) dependent on IT to be announced before analysis of risks'".—[Official Report,Hansard600Hansard,599598 Official Report,"a quantitative analysis of the costs and benefits".—[ Official Report,597Official Report,"the least corrupt revenue service of any major country in the world",—[Official Report,Lord Sheldon
: My Lords, the report points out the need for close alignment between the public appointments system as it stands now and the Civil Service appointments system. What action does the Minister propose to take to encourage that closer alignment?Lord Sheldon
585: My Lords, can my noble friend confirm that with about 200,000 people a
585Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
: My Lords, can the Minister assure us that the level of commitment in Iraq will not be maintained by means of reducing our commitment in Afghanistan?Lord Elton
"Whenever possible, mobilisation will be on a voluntary basis but compulsion may be used if necessary"."To augment the Regular Forces for enduring operations".Future Use of the UK's Reserve Forces,: My Lords, considering the increase in British forces in Iraq, how many reservists are being called upon to act in Iraq? "Whenever possible, mobilisation will be on a voluntary basis but compulsion may be used if necessary"."To augment the Regular Forces for enduring operations".Future Use of the UK's Reserve Forces,Lord Redesdale
586: My Lords, do the Government accept that asylum policy as opposed to immigration policy should be centred on the needs of
586Lord Beaumont of Whitley
: My Lords, will the Minister take us through the Statement of 27 January a little more? Various figures have been mentioned. There will be 1,400 Dutch forces going and a net change of 150 from the UK. Does that mean that the security situation has improved enormously or that one British serviceman can do the work of 10 Dutchmen?Lord Garden
: My Lords, it does not mean the latter. We are very grateful for what the Dutch have done in that part of the South-East Division. As we speak, the province from where the Dutch will withdraw in March is much quieter than other parts of the South-East Division. A very significant inquiry was undertaken to work out what numbers were needed to take their place. As I have outlined today and as was outlined in the Statement made by my right honourable friend the Secretary of State in January, those numbers remain the proper figures.Lord Bach
: Yes, my Lords, I can assure the noble Lord of that very important point. We are absolutely committed to Afghanistan, as we are to Iraq, and to seeing through what has started. The noble Lord need not concern himself on that count.Lord Bach
546: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and gallant Lord for that question. There are still 27 states
546Lord Bach
: My Lords, none.Lord Bach
: My Lords, we believe that it is. Indeed, we have discussed on many occasions in this House the new role that the reserves now play. It is a crucial role in Iraq and other centres of operation. The announcement of the mobilisation of a further tranche of approximately 900 reservists to support continuing operations from May to June next year was made on 14 December, as the noble Lord will know. Around 9,000 reserves have served with great distinction in Iraq since conflict in 2003.Lord Bach
: Yes, my Lords, we are sure that the 600 troops are adequate; a very careful military examination has gone on to ensure that that is so. Of those that we are sending to Iraq for that purpose, the 220 that we are sending to go with the British troops who will move to that part of South-East Division are key enablers to ensure that we can do the job properly. Of those 220, 70 will leave in pretty short order. We would not have agreed to do that unless those figures were right.Lord Bach
: My Lords, the coalition is committed to retaining a military presence in Iraq while the Iraqi Government request it and as Iraqi security forces develop both capacity and capability to assume the security of their country.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence (Lord Bach)
: My Lords, I am not sure that I am up to the mathematical formula required for that answer. The overall coalition forces are currently around 160,000. The United States have approximately 135,000 forces. As of February 2005, we have just over 8,000. So one can assume that there are about 17,000, roughly speaking, who are neither US nor UK forces.Lord Bach
: My Lords, whatever once upon a time was the position, it is nowadays common for judges to he asked to conduct public inquiries. However, it cannot simply be taken for granted that there is a ready availability of judges. Taking, a judge away from his normal work for a public inquiry has important implications for his work as a judge and for the work of the court of which he is a member. This is particularly the case with smaller jurisdictions. I must, of course, declare my interest as the Lord President of the Court of Session. Judges have been called upon from that court in recent years to conduct inquiries not only in Scotland but also in England.Lord Cullen of Whitekirk
646Page 3, line 33, leave out "consult" and insert "obtain the consent of"moved Amendment No. 25:
646Page 3, line 33, leave out "consult" and insert "obtain the consent of"Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I say in response to the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, that the issue will be raised when we reach the group of amendments starting with Amendment No. 65. As I have already said, I am happy to ask leave to withdraw my amendment.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, we have had an interesting debate, with noble Lords on all sides speaking from great experience. Perhaps greatest of all is that of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Cullen, who has presided over three public inquiries of great importance and has done so with enormous ability and skill.Lord Goodhart
620619: My Lords, I rise because my name is attached to Amendments Nos. 3, 5, 111 and 112 in this group.620619Lord Goodhart
636(5) In subsection (4) omit paragraph (c)."(4) In subsection (2) omit the words "inquiry or" in each place.(3) Section 32 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (court records etc.) is amended as follows.(2) But at the end of an inquiry all recorded information given to or created by the inquiry shall be transferred to and kept by the Minister and shall be subject to the right to information under that Act.(1) An inquiry panel is not a public authority for the purposes of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36).
(5) In subsection (4) omit paragraph (c)."(4) In subsection (2) omit the words "inquiry or" in each place.(3) Section 32 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (court records etc.) is amended as follows.(2) But at the end of an inquiry all recorded information given to or created by the inquiry shall be transferred to and kept by the Minister and shall be subject to the right to information under that Act.(1) An inquiry panel is not a public authority for the purposes of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36)."FREEDOM OF INFORMATIONAfter Clause 3, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 9:
636(5) In subsection (4) omit paragraph (c)."(4) In subsection (2) omit the words "inquiry or" in each place.(3) Section 32 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (court records etc.) is amended as follows.(2) But at the end of an inquiry all recorded information given to or created by the inquiry shall be transferred to and kept by the Minister and shall be subject to the right to information under that Act.(1) An inquiry panel is not a public authority for the purposes of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36).
(5) In subsection (4) omit paragraph (c)."(4) In subsection (2) omit the words "inquiry or" in each place.(3) Section 32 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (court records etc.) is amended as follows.(2) But at the end of an inquiry all recorded information given to or created by the inquiry shall be transferred to and kept by the Minister and shall be subject to the right to information under that Act.(1) An inquiry panel is not a public authority for the purposes of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36)."FREEDOM OF INFORMATIONAfter Clause 3, insert the following new clause—Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Borrie. Given that he claims to rely on my arguments, perhaps I may ask him whether the following would not be an answer to his point: if a parliamentary process is involved, Parliament has a potential input. If it does not like the terms on which the inquiry is to be set up, Parliament could say to the Government, "This is not the form of inquiry that we want. We welcome your proposal for an inquiry but we will approve it only if you are prepared to take this away and come back with a different form".Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I saw that the report included lay people, or those who are not Members of either House of Parliament, as well as those who were. There is no rule in the recommendation about the number in each category. I said that I was hesitant about it; I have concerns. I would not reject it entirely, but I am not convinced that it is an improvement on having a wholly independent, non-parliamentary inquiry.Lord Goodhart
"( ) Before establishing the terms of reference the Minister shall consult the chairman."Page 2, line 20, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 12:
"( ) Before establishing the terms of reference the Minister shall consult the chairman."Page 2, line 20, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I welcome what the Minister said. I agree that her formulation goes somewhat further than ours and, to that extent, is an improvement on it. I have some sympathy with the noble Viscount, Lord Goschen, although I am not sure that my sympathy goes quite as far as wishing to press this amendment to see it in the Bill. I would have been interested to see the initial proposed budget for the Bloody Sunday inquiry. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I do not think that the noble Lord does beg to move the amendment. I accept what he says. I am happy with government Amendments Nos. 43, 91, 92 and 93. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
"( ) The Minister shall lay the terms of reference before each House of Parliament."Page 2, line 20, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 13:
"( ) The Minister shall lay the terms of reference before each House of Parliament."Page 2, line 20, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
"in a way which carries greater public confidence and reflects more accurately than at present the Seven Principles of Public Life"?: My Lords, I am aware that the Government have two months in which to reply to the committee's report. In considering it, are the Government likely to accept the conclusion of the Committee on Standards in Public Life, in paragraph 2.5, that the public appointments system must be reformed,
"in a way which carries greater public confidence and reflects more accurately than at present the Seven Principles of Public Life"?Lord Goodhart
Getting the Balance Right: Implementing Standards of Conduct in Public Life.asked Her Majesty's Government:Getting the Balance Right: Implementing Standards of Conduct in Public Life.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, my speaking notes were compiled before the noble Lord, Lord Dubs, made his contribution. I welcome Amendment No. 52 for its greater clarity and because it emphasises the responsibilities and powers of the chair of an inquiry.Lord Laming
624: My Lords, I will be very brief. I—and I am sure every Member of the House—have listened very carefully to the noble Lords, Lord Kingsland and Lord Goodhart. As ever, they have presented their views in a thoughtful and constructive way, but I am far from convinced about these amendments.624Lord Laming
: My Lords, lest there be any misunderstanding, will the Minister, and maybe the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe, who moved the amendment, make it plain that if in future a chairman is appointed to chair an inquiry and he is accompanied by assessors, the conduct of the inquiry, and the report of the inquiry, is solely the responsibility of the chair?Lord Laming
: I apologise, my Lords.Lord Wallace of Saltaire
554: My Lords, it may be helpful to intervene in support of this amendment, even though there are a number of things I wish to say on Amendments Nos. 4 and 5. It is not our intention to block the Bill or to make things difficult for the Government; it is our intention, both on the Conservative and Liberal Democrat Benches, to make sure that this extension of immunity does not go by unobserved.554Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords, I am disappointed by that rather wimpish response. I often regret that Her Majesty's Government do not pursue the more positive areas of our commitment to European co-operation more vigorously.Lord Wallace of Saltaire
571: My Lords, I am not sure whether to be more amused or exasperated by that extraordinary response, in which we have been accused, as it were, of undermining the Government's efforts to abolish world poverty by suggesting the amendment. I had thought that the Minister was a signed-up member of new Labour. As I understand it, new Labour believes in modernisation and change—in challenging the conventional wisdom and attacking inherited and outdated privilege. What I heard was that the Government prefer a quiet life on this matter, and would like to carry on according to the accepted principles.571Lord Wallace of Saltaire
565(3) Once the conditions of subsections (1) and (2) have been met, a report shall be published each year setting out the privileges, immunities and facilities conferred under this Act in the previous year."(2) The report, as set out in subsection (1). shall be debated by both Houses of Parliament.(1) This Act shall not enter into force until a report has been published, setting out the current framework for granting diplomatic privileges and immunities, for assessing the appropriate level of such privileges and to whom they should apply.
(3) Once the conditions of subsections (1) and (2) have been met, a report shall be published each year setting out the privileges, immunities and facilities conferred under this Act in the previous year."(2) The report, as set out in subsection (1). shall be debated by both Houses of Parliament.(1) This Act shall not enter into force until a report has been published, setting out the current framework for granting diplomatic privileges and immunities, for assessing the appropriate level of such privileges and to whom they should apply."PRIVILEGES, IMMUNITIES AND FACILITIES REPORTSAfter Clause 10, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 4:
565(3) Once the conditions of subsections (1) and (2) have been met, a report shall be published each year setting out the privileges, immunities and facilities conferred under this Act in the previous year."(2) The report, as set out in subsection (1). shall be debated by both Houses of Parliament.(1) This Act shall not enter into force until a report has been published, setting out the current framework for granting diplomatic privileges and immunities, for assessing the appropriate level of such privileges and to whom they should apply.
(3) Once the conditions of subsections (1) and (2) have been met, a report shall be published each year setting out the privileges, immunities and facilities conferred under this Act in the previous year."(2) The report, as set out in subsection (1). shall be debated by both Houses of Parliament.(1) This Act shall not enter into force until a report has been published, setting out the current framework for granting diplomatic privileges and immunities, for assessing the appropriate level of such privileges and to whom they should apply."PRIVILEGES, IMMUNITIES AND FACILITIES REPORTSAfter Clause 10, insert the following new clause—Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords, in considering the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, will the Government take into account the views expressed by Sir Alan Budd on his appointment by the Home Secretary to look into that particular affair? His comments are very interesting.Lord Roberts of Conwy
634: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Laming, is correct. I was much taken by the statutory requirement proposed by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson, for women to determine the eligibility or intelligibility of contributions from men. I might sign up to that, if the noble and learned Lord would care to put an amendment down to that effect. I will be brief, which is
634Baroness Ashton of Upholland
626625: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Laming, for his kind comments. I shall start what I hope will be a relatively brief response by saying how much I welcome the report of the Public Administration Select Committee. It makes an important contribution and endorses quite a lot of what the Government have been doing. Of course, not all of the total of 22 recommendations are specifically relevant to the Bill, but the report does cover some of the important issues that we discussed during our deliberations in Grand Committee and which the Government have brought forward amendments to address. Perhaps I may say particularly to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, that some of the issues of concern to him are addressed specifically and dealt with in later amendments.626625Baroness Ashton of Upholland
638: My Lords, I am grateful for the welcome that has been given to the government amendments. They accept in principle what the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, proposes. I agree that inquiry panels are not public authorities for the purpose of the Freedom of Information Act. There is no need to set that out explicitly in the Bill because it is a provision of the Bill as drafted. As the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, realises, subsection (2) of Amendment No. 9 contains a matter that we intend to deal with in procedural rules, as government Amendment No. 107 makes clear. I can assure the noble Lord that our intention is that at the end of an inquiry the records that are retained will pass to a public authority, usually a government department or the National Archives.638Baroness Ashton of Upholland
643per se: My Lords, I am certainly willing to consider that. I shall speak to colleagues to determine what we might be able to do. Publishing the figure does not necessarily control the cost 643per seBaroness Ashton of Upholland
642: My Lords, as the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, said, I promised in
642Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I can assure the noble and learned Lord that there is no truth in the rumour. We shall continue with Report stage and do as well as we can.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
652: My Lords, I am grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken. I fear that I will be in a minority as regards what I have to say to your Lordships. I do not suspect that will come as any surprise to noble and learned Lords. I begin by recognising the huge respect in which we hold the noble and learned Lords, Lord Woolf and Lord Cullen, in particular. I am grateful that they shared their thoughts with your Lordships this evening.652Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"( ) Before exercising his powers under subsection (2)(a) the Minister must consult the person he proposes to appoint, or has appointed, as chairman."Page 4, line 15, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 28:
"( ) Before exercising his powers under subsection (2)(a) the Minister must consult the person he proposes to appoint, or has appointed, as chairman."Page 4, line 15, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"regard in particular to the cost",654Page 4, line 19, leave out subsection (4). moved Amendment No. 29:
"regard in particular to the cost",654Page 4, line 19, leave out subsection (4).Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, and also to the noble Lord, Lord Laming, who is no longer in his place. Noble Lords will recall that the noble Lord, Lord Laming, spoke about the relationship that can exist between the chairman of an inquiry and an assessor. He spoke too of how success can depend on close teamwork and mutual confidence.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"such that his membership of the inquiry panel could reasonably be regarded as affecting its impartiality;"Page 4, leave out lines 41 and 42 and insert—moved Amendment No. 31:
"such that his membership of the inquiry panel could reasonably be regarded as affecting its impartiality;"Page 4, leave out lines 41 and 42 and insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, we shall endeavour to find out the current situation for the noble Lord and report back as soon as possible.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(4) Before setting out or amending the terms of reference the Minister must consult the person he proposes to appoint, or has appointed, as chairman.""(3) The Minister may at any time after setting out the terms of reference under this section amend them if he considers that the public interest so requires.Page 2, line 21, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 15:
(4) Before setting out or amending the terms of reference the Minister must consult the person he proposes to appoint, or has appointed, as chairman.""(3) The Minister may at any time after setting out the terms of reference under this section amend them if he considers that the public interest so requires.Page 2, line 21, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner. I did indeed write to him in some detail to deal with all the issues raised in the paper from the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. I understand that the noble and learned Lord now accepts that the issues have been dealt with either in my letter or by the amendments now before your Lordships' House. Again, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(4) A statement under this section may be oral or written."(3) Where the terms of reference of an inquiry are amended under section 5(2A), the Minister must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, make a statement to the relevant Parliament or Assembly setting out the amended terms of reference.(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;
(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;(2) A statement under subsection (1) must state—(1) A Minister who proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, or who has already done so without making a statement under this section, must as soon as is reasonably practicable make a statement to that effect to the relevant Parliament or Assembly.
(4) A statement under this section may be oral or written."(3) Where the terms of reference of an inquiry are amended under section 5(2A), the Minister must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, make a statement to the relevant Parliament or Assembly setting out the amended terms of reference.(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;
(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;(2) A statement under subsection (1) must state—(1) A Minister who proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, or who has already done so without making a statement under this section, must as soon as is reasonably practicable make a statement to that effect to the relevant Parliament or Assembly."MINISTER'S DUTY TO INFORM PARLIAMENT OR ASSEMBLYAfter Clause 5, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 18:
(4) A statement under this section may be oral or written."(3) Where the terms of reference of an inquiry are amended under section 5(2A), the Minister must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, make a statement to the relevant Parliament or Assembly setting out the amended terms of reference.(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;
(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;(2) A statement under subsection (1) must state—(1) A Minister who proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, or who has already done so without making a statement under this section, must as soon as is reasonably practicable make a statement to that effect to the relevant Parliament or Assembly.
(4) A statement under this section may be oral or written."(3) Where the terms of reference of an inquiry are amended under section 5(2A), the Minister must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, make a statement to the relevant Parliament or Assembly setting out the amended terms of reference.(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;
(c) what are to be, or are, the inquiry's terms of reference.(b) whether the Minister has appointed, or proposes to appoint, any other members to the inquiry panel, and if so how many;(a) who is to be, or has been, appointed as chairman of the inquiry;(2) A statement under subsection (1) must state—(1) A Minister who proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, or who has already done so without making a statement under this section, must as soon as is reasonably practicable make a statement to that effect to the relevant Parliament or Assembly."MINISTER'S DUTY TO INFORM PARLIAMENT OR ASSEMBLYAfter Clause 5, insert the following new clause—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for being entirely content with what I sought to do. The credit must go to the noble Lord. I have also tabled Amendment No. 31 to ensure that there is consistency between Clause 11(3)(c) and Clause 8(1) as amended by Amendment No. 24.1 hope these changes will help to promote public confidence, which is what we are seeking to do. I am very grateful for what the noble Lord said and I hope that he will withdraw his amendment in favour of mine.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"unless, despite the person's interest or association, his appointment could not reasonably be regarded as affecting the impartiality of the inquiry panel"Page 3, leave out lines 18 and 19 and insert— moved Amendment No. 24:
"unless, despite the person's interest or association, his appointment could not reasonably be regarded as affecting the impartiality of the inquiry panel"Page 3, leave out lines 18 and 19 and insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, as this is Report stage, I think that the noble Lord should not reply after the Minister has spoken.Baroness Crawley
"The rules of the tribunal shall ensure that applicants are dealt with in a manner that is independent, impartial and consistent with the Commonwealth Harare principles relating to fundamental human rights and the independence of the judiciary".550549: My Lords, this amendment would remove from the Bill the proposed extension of immunity to be conferred on the Commonwealth Secretariat."The rules of the tribunal shall ensure that applicants are dealt with in a manner that is independent, impartial and consistent with the Commonwealth Harare principles relating to fundamental human rights and the independence of the judiciary".550549Baroness Crawley
552: My Lords, the result of the amendment would be to remove from the Bill the enabling provision to allow for the same immunity to be conferred on the members of any successor body to the Commonwealth Secretariat Arbitral Tribunal, should one be established in the future.552Baroness Crawley
582: My Lords, perhaps in answer to me the noble Baroness could find time to reply to my noble friend's question. At the moment, about 250,000 people have come here to claim asylum and been refused asylum but are still in the country. What are the Government's plans to reduce that number?582Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: My Lords, can the Minister assure the House that, when coming to their conclusions on the matter, the Government will take full account of the need to avoid eroding public confidence in the independence of the Commissioner for Public Appointments, which the present holder of that office so successfully achieved?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, Amendments Nos. 14 and 15 have been incorrectly marshalled. I must therefore call Amendment No. 15 first.The Deputy Speaker (Baroness Hooper)
577Controlling our Borders"Well, I mean I've set a target already which is a so-called sort of tipping target".576"asylum seekers and their dependants whose claims are rejected will be removed from Britain with the aim of more than 30,000 in 2003–4"."every country should have firm control over immigration and Britain is no exception".: My Lords, I thank the Minister for repeating the Statement made by her right honourable friend the Home Secretary a short while ago. The Statement repeats the substance of the Prime Minister's interview on television yesterday, of what the Home Secretary said on television yesterday and the article by the Prime Minister reproduced at length in the press this morning.577Controlling our Borders"Well, I mean I've set a target already which is a so-called sort of tipping target".576"asylum seekers and their dependants whose claims are rejected will be removed from Britain with the aim of more than 30,000 in 2003–4"."every country should have firm control over immigration and Britain is no exception".Baroness Anelay of St Johns
: My Lords, it is a very important paper. I share the remarks made by the noble Lord, Lord Beaumont. To a great extent, the importance of this paper will lie in how it affects the lives of the most vulnerable people who will have very few other options, unlike most of the professional classes.Baroness Falkner of Margravine
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I would be more reassured if the independence and impartiality of the tribunal were guaranteed more rigorously by access to justice rather than by the Harare principles which, after all, are political principles and thus have no bearing in law.Baroness Falkner of Margravine
548Waite and Kennedy v Germany,"everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law"."What alternative avenues of redress are available to satisfy Article 6 rights of effective access to court in respect of each of the organisations dealt with in the Bill, and how do these alternative mechanisms ensure that the very essence of the right of access to court is not impaired?"."The UK accepts, in principle, that the Commonwealth Secretariat's jurisdictional immunity should be on the same level as that enjoyed by other organisations in the UK"."A number of immunities conferred do not appear to be required by international legal obligations, however. This appears to be the case in relation to the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Commonwealth Secretariat Arbitral Tribunal. Although the Explanatory Notes observe that conferring more extensive immunities on these bodies and persons connected with them would 'bring the Secretariat into line with a number of other international organisations based in the UK', it is not clear that there is any international legal obligation in this regard, or in regard to the immunity from suit of CSAT and its members".547Page 1, line 5, leave out paragraph (b).moved Amendment No. 1:
548Waite and Kennedy v Germany,"everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law"."What alternative avenues of redress are available to satisfy Article 6 rights of effective access to court in respect of each of the organisations dealt with in the Bill, and how do these alternative mechanisms ensure that the very essence of the right of access to court is not impaired?"."The UK accepts, in principle, that the Commonwealth Secretariat's jurisdictional immunity should be on the same level as that enjoyed by other organisations in the UK"."A number of immunities conferred do not appear to be required by international legal obligations, however. This appears to be the case in relation to the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Commonwealth Secretariat Arbitral Tribunal. Although the Explanatory Notes observe that conferring more extensive immunities on these bodies and persons connected with them would 'bring the Secretariat into line with a number of other international organisations based in the UK', it is not clear that there is any international legal obligation in this regard, or in regard to the immunity from suit of CSAT and its members".547Page 1, line 5, leave out paragraph (b).Baroness Falkner of Margravine
: My Lords, I am sorry to interrupt the noble Baroness, but we have had 20 minutes, which is the time allowed for the two opposition Front Benches and for her to reply before Back-Benchers have a chance to speak.The Countess of Mar
: No, my Lords, it is an absolute.The Countess of Mar
584Companion: My Lords, I apologise to the House, particularly to the noble Baroness for having misled her. I took the advice of the Clerk and was told that the limit was 20 minutes. But the 584CompanionThe Countess of Mar
"Mark Malloch Brown, the eloquent British official who Mr Annan recently promoted to be his chief of staff with a brief to 'renew' the organisation … said. 'But these are extremely serious charges of wrongdoing and no one will be shielded from prosecution. If there are criminal charges, the UN will fully co-operate and waive diplomatic immunity of staff members, whoever they are'"."Even after the publication of the interim Volcker report. Mr Sevan's status with the UN remains strangely blurred, and UN officials seem to have remarkable trouble defining it. Does he still have diplomatic immunity? Yes. Has he retired? Yes, but he still has the status of a contract employee, at $1 per year, maintaining his immunity. Does he have a pension? Yes, but it is not yet being paid".: My Lords, I support the noble Lord, Lord Wallace of Saltaire, and the noble Baroness, Lady Falkner, in this amendment. It goes much further than my amendment to Clause 5, and it addresses the wider issues of immunities and privileges with regard to all international organisations, not just those within the European Union."Mark Malloch Brown, the eloquent British official who Mr Annan recently promoted to be his chief of staff with a brief to 'renew' the organisation … said. 'But these are extremely serious charges of wrongdoing and no one will be shielded from prosecution. If there are criminal charges, the UN will fully co-operate and waive diplomatic immunity of staff members, whoever they are'"."Even after the publication of the interim Volcker report. Mr Sevan's status with the UN remains strangely blurred, and UN officials seem to have remarkable trouble defining it. Does he still have diplomatic immunity? Yes. Has he retired? Yes, but he still has the status of a contract employee, at $1 per year, maintaining his immunity. Does he have a pension? Yes, but it is not yet being paid".Baroness Rawlings
551Official Report,"Commonwealth Secretariat has not indicated that it is considering setting up any successor bodies to CSAT"—[Official Report,Page 2, line 4, leave out subsections (4) and (5).moved Amendment No. 2:
551Official Report,"Commonwealth Secretariat has not indicated that it is considering setting up any successor bodies to CSAT"—[Official Report,Page 2, line 4, leave out subsections (4) and (5).Baroness Rawlings
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I am reassured. I take no issue with its content but the statutory instrument and the lack of scrutiny by Parliament still bothers us. We may well need to return to this issue. In the mean time, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Rawlings
553Official Report,"When the occasion for a review arises, I have no doubt that it will be seized upon".—[Official Report,"( ) This section comes into force the day after Her Majesty's Government have initiated a review within the Council of the European Union of the privileges and immunities which ought to be extended to the bodies and persons to which this section applies.""Page 3, line 38, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 2A:
553Official Report,"When the occasion for a review arises, I have no doubt that it will be seized upon".—[Official Report,"( ) This section comes into force the day after Her Majesty's Government have initiated a review within the Council of the European Union of the privileges and immunities which ought to be extended to the bodies and persons to which this section applies.""Page 3, line 38, at end insert—Baroness Rawlings
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his detailed answer. I agree that it is important for the organisations to carry out their duties without being impeded and that the commitment was entered into in good faith, but I am sorry that the Minister cannot reassure us on this occasion. I look forward to meeting the noble Baroness, Lady Symons of Vernham Dean, at a later stage. However, the issue is so important, given that the British presidency is coming up and the possibility that this could be on the agenda, that I wish to test the opinion of the House.Baroness Rawlings
541Times: My Lords, does the Minister agree that on the eve of the previous general election, weeks before the 50th anniversary of the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees, the Prime Minister wrote in the 541TimesBaroness Rawlings
: My Lords, 1 think that I am entitled to reply, bearing in mind that the noble Lord and the noble Baroness asked—Baroness Scotland of Asthal
581: My Lords, I say immediately to the noble Lord, Lord Dholakia, that if there is a bidding war, it is not a war in which the Government are engaged.581Baroness Scotland of Asthal
575574573572: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement made by my right honourable friend the Home Secretary in another place. The Statement is as follows:575574573572The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, I thank the noble Countess for her gracious apology. I also thank her because her intervention meant that I was not able to weary the House with the answer to each and every question, which of course I would have been delighted to do.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, as the 10th child of my mother and father, perhaps I may say that each child has its own value. If my parents had given up, I would not be standing before noble Lords today.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, we have looked at that issue very carefully. Of course, if legislation is brought forward there will be an opportunity for us to debate it. But our hope and aspiration is to make the procedure clear and understandable by all, so that those who are entitled to have those permissions given to them will get them. On that basis, if the procedure is simple, clear and straightforward, we hope that there will be no need for appeals.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the Government are very enthusiastic supporters of the Hague programme, which has very much honed the programme for the European Union regarding what we will seek to develop together. The contents of this five-year programme complement very well that which we are going to do. The five-year strategy is not simply a recitation of what has already been done. In the proposed changes, noble Lords will see many new things, such as the points system, the advisory group, the ability to monitor the flows of migration, the issues of the skills base, what we need and how we can amplify that.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Well, my Lords, then I look forward to replying more fully in due course.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I know that the green card system has proved attractive to a number of people. We have decided on the points system because we think that it best reflects our ability to monitor the needs of the economy as it changes. The points system can be adapted as we receive advice from the advisory group on the needs of the market at any given time. We can adjust the points system to allow for market flows. To take up the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Dholakia, it would ensure that if there was a need for less-skilled and tier 3 workers, we could make those visas and opportunities available.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the noble Baroness will know that we have made a trenchant attempt to increase the number of returns of failed asylum seekers. We now return many more than were returned under the previous administration. We have removed 46,000, including illegal workers and those refused entry at the port. In 1996, the number of failed asylum seekers removed was equivalent to only 20 per cent of new unsuccessful claims. In the first six months of 2004, the proportion was estimated to be around 50 per cent. Much has been done about the returns procedure.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I very much agree with my noble friend on those matters. I wish to reassure him and the noble Lord, Lord Dholakia, that we value the contribution made by unskilled workers to our economy. For that reason, we propose a fourtier system: tiers one and two, for highly skilled and skilled workers; tier three, for low-skilled workers, taking into account the additional labour from the new EU countries—that will be phased out; and tier four, for students and specialists. We understand that there is a breadth of need to be met; we hope to be able to encourage that in a way that is proportionate and appropriate for our economic development and skills base. I wish to make clear that my noble friend's comments are rightly made.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I can certainly assure the noble Baroness that that will be done extremely rigorously and with great care. Your Lordships will know that for a while there has been a policy that we are able to return asylum seekers to safe parts of countries, particularly where a country is very large. It is something that must be done cautiously, appropriately and in a way that ensures we are making the right judgments.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the noble Lord is right. There is a difference between those who seek asylum because they are subjected to persecution and threats of death and those who wish to come to our country as economic migrants to better their life chances. One of the difficulties has been that in the past, many people have conflated those two issues.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the noble Lord and your Lordships will know that those things take time. Perhaps I may thank him for his very kind comments about myself and my family. There are in fact 12 of us—I was just the 10th child.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, does the Minister agree with the committee's finding that the ability of local councillors to represent their constituents' interests in planning matters has been "unnecessarily curtailed"? Will the Government act on the recommendation to reform the code of conduct?Baroness Scott of Needham Market
611610609"The case for organisational change rests on potential improvements in customer service, effectiveness and efficiency"."without the risks. upfront and opportunity costs and structural upheaval which merger would inevitably entail".608: My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord the Attorney General for introducing the Bill, and like the noble Lord, Lord Barnett, I welcome him to the relatively small band that is accustomed to debating Treasury matters.611610609"The case for organisational change rests on potential improvements in customer service, effectiveness and efficiency"."without the risks. upfront and opportunity costs and structural upheaval which merger would inevitably entail".608Baroness Noakes
668: My Lords, as I pointed out when we discussed this issue previously, the Joint Committee, which I chaired, recommended that people experiencing separate periods of depression which total six months over a two-year period should be considered to meet the long-term requirement. When the Minister replied, she said that that was inappropriate because this could be taken on board, as it were, only if the depression occurred as a result of a continuing impairment.668Lord Carter
: My Lords, in the Department for Education and Skills international strategy, we recognised the importance of that initiative. We are currently considering a range of options for the recruitment of international students when the Prime Minister's initiative comes to an end at the end of April, in consultation with our funding partners and other stakeholders.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for that encouraging response. The Prime Minister's initiative of 1999 has been of enormous benefit, primarily, of course, to UK universities, but also to other institutions, not least the private sector English language schools. However, does the Minister accept that the need now is greater than ever with such factors as the increased competition from the United States, as American universities recover from the setback to student numbers following 9/11, and from many other countries, including several within the European continent? Indeed, have not the Government introduced unwelcome help for the competition by imposing heavy visa charges on students wanting to enter for study in this country?Lord Quirk
: My Lords, I wholly agree with the noble Lord, Lord Quirk, that it is essential that we continue in our efforts. It is true that we are doing so in an increasingly competitive environment. Some European countries are now teaching in English to encourage students to come and there is competition around the world, although some countries that have been doing very well in the past—I think of the United States and Australia—have, for different reasons, been doing rather worse recently. America has imposed a very strict security regime around its visas. That has discouraged a number of students.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, can my noble friend not answer the last part of the question of the noble Lord, Lord Quirk, by giving us a progress report on visa charges?Lord Taylor of Blackburn
656: My Lords, I shall certainly do so. Yesterday, the Home Office announced that the visa
656Lord Triesman
: My Lords, why is it, therefore, that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office needs to charge only £36 for a visa applied for from overseas, whereas the Home Office is now charging—as the Minister says, at a subsidised price—£250?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, that is the price for a visa to continue to stay. I should probably try the patience of the House if I went through all the items that go towards that, but I make the point that the whole of the administration—the cross-checking, the availability of an appeals system and many other factors—is contained in the regulatory impact document. The case is made out in detail, which gives everyone the chance to explore it and judge it for himself.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that the Government have to do nothing to encourage international students to go to our universities, as, from now on, every university will recruit more international students at the expense of British students? That is the inevitable consequence of the Government's policy. Perhaps he would listen to the words of the chancellor of Oxford University, the noble Lord, Lord Patten, who said that universities should be free to charge whatever they want, provided scholarship schemes are in place.Lord Baker of Dorking
: My Lords, an unrestrained fee regime has been advocated in this House in major debates recently. All noble Lords know that we will not go that way; I said that only a short while ago.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, in declaring an interest as chief executive of Universities UK, I reiterate the concern expressed about the impact of the charges announced yesterday on recruitment in a highly competitive market. Will the Government undertake to carry out a review of the effect of those charges on the recruitment of international students?Baroness Warwick of Undercliffe
657: My Lords, there is a constant review of the way in which fees in general and costs are changing. The impact of this change on the costs of
657Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does the noble Lord appreciate that in 40 per cent of universities the number of overseas students has dropped, not increased? Is that good government?Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: My Lords, universities offer a very wide range of programmes. As the noble Baroness knows, what they offer is entirely a matter for them. In some cases they have been very successful; in other cases, less successful. It is all in the face of widespread international competition as everybody tries to get into the international student market. As a country and a system of higher education, taking the UK as a whole—there is no difference across the home nations in this respect—we have done extraordinarily well and greatly exceeded targets that many thought would be impossible to achieve.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, has the regulatory impact statement taken account of the extent to which those costs fall on UK charities which support overseas students in one way and another, particularly at the end of their courses, when they need extension visas?Baroness O'Neill of Bengarve
: My Lords, the modelling is there—and in detail—in the regulatory impact report. I urge noble Lords to read the report, and, if those are still matters of anxiety, to return to them.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the closure of the deputy high commission in Kiribati reflects the need better to align our resources with our priorities. The high commission in Fiji, which will cover Kiribati, will be able to bid for funds for Kiribati from the same Foreign and Commonwealth Office programmes as last year, including Chevening scholarships and sponsored visits. DfID has allocated £20,000 to Kiribati in 2005–06, and EU programmes for 2003–09 of The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
658: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I am sure that she appreciates
658Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: Yes, my Lords, I believe that there is and that we can give them reassurance. I assure the noble Baroness that the decision on those closures was not taken lightly; it has been thought through. Kiribati will continue to receive the Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, does the Minister not agree that because of the distances involved—there are some 3,000 miles between Christmas Island, to the north of the island group of Kiribati, and Tarawa, the capital—it will be almost impossible to cover the whole area adequately without a locally placed individual? Does she not also agree that the current deputy high commissioner and his wife, who are based in Tarawa, have been doing a first-class job and will be sorely missed?Baroness Hooper
: My Lords, I am sure that the individuals will be sorely missed. As I said to the noble Baroness, Lady Gadrner of Parkes, a moment ago, the decision has been taken after a great deal of thought. Our high commissioner in Suva, in Fiji, is already accredited to Kiribati. When the deputy high commissioner departs, we plan to reinforce the staff at Suva to ensure that we maintain the United Kingdom's links with the Government of Kiribati. The high commissioner and his staff will make regular visits to Tarawa and will continue engaging at the same level with the government of Kiribati.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
659: My Lords, will the noble Baroness confirm that the deputy high commission in Kiribati, like most missions, as I understand it, has had available a heads of mission fund, for which it is not
659Lord Wright of Richmond
: My Lords, that is a rather different question. It involves DfID funding for small projects. A number of our embassies are finding that that money has been realigned. That is going on throughout the Foreign Office, and that question is not strictly related to what is going on in Kiribati. It is an issue for our high commissioners and our embassies in general.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, we all recognise that it is difficult for the British Government to continue to fund missions in all 190 other member states of the United Nations. Have the Government taken a position on proposals for a European Union action service that could maintain collective missions in some of the smaller countries in which there is, in combination, sufficient European interest, even if there is not sufficient individual interest to justify a resident mission from any one EU member state?Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords, I know that the noble Lord is fond of reminding your Lordships that that is an important issue. It is important in several areas, but I do not believe that it is under active consideration at the moment with regard to the countries in the south Pacific.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I declare an interest, in that I was responsible for organising the independence of Kiribati in 1979. Trying to cover Kiribati and the other islands from Fiji is no substitute for having a British deputy high commissioner in place. My noble friend mentioned the immense distances between the different parts of the islands. That is true of some of the other islands as well.Lord Blaker
660: My Lords, I am afraid that I cannot answer the specific point on the fishing fleet. However, I shall write to the noble Lord about it.660Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the Deloitte report demonstrates the effectiveness of the Government's action in subjecting directors' remuneration to closer scrutiny by shareholders. As a result. the Government do not believe that further legislation in the area is necessary at this stage. However, there remains no room for complacency. The challenge for remuneration committees is to develop packages that effectively link remuneration to the creation of long-term value for shareholders.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that Answer. I am sure that he will recognise—if I can borrow his favourite verb—that it is a rather shallow report. In the attempt to sample investors' opinion, only 24 institutional shareholders—the major ones—were sampled. No attention was paid to individual shareholders or smaller investors, perhaps because the DTI's specification did not include it. Why did it not include it? It is perhaps because it was meant to be a cheap piece of work.Lord Smith of Clifton
: My Lords, I note that the noble Lord is critical of the report, but the report has given rise to regulations that are working effectively. All British companies, whatever their size, are complying with the regulations effectively, meaning that there is greater transparency and that we have a better system for ensuring that companies are open about their annual reports than any other country in the advanced world. That is why the Government recognise that some minor improvements to the regulations might be effected. That is why we are open to consultation on that. But the main thrust of the report has been translated into regulations that are proving effective.Lord Davies of Oldham
661: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that what the institutional shareholders said in response to Deloitte indicated that, although they did
661Lord Barnett
: My Lords, the regulations have meant that the 350 major FTSE companies have given their reports in all openness to shareholders. It is for shareholders to make their judgment on the information provided.Lord Davies of Oldham
cri de coeur: My Lords, I have a cri de coeurLord Marsh
: My Lords, it is certainly the case that companies publish the range of salaries, and, as the noble Lord says, it is open to shareholders to withdraw their investment. However, I think that the noble Lord, with his usual fairness, would also recognise that, at one or two shareholder meetings, the board has been held to account on the level of remuneration for less than satisfactory performance. That is a reflection of the openness that the regulations guarantee.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, does my noble friend accept that the matter was not put squarely before the Company Law Review Group? Would he like to refer the matter to such a group?Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
662: My Lords, anti-social behaviour orders are certainly outside my brief. With regard to the general points made by my noble friend, there are, of course, areas in which we would want to see company practice improve. However, he will recognise that the crucial way in which power is exercised is access to the relevant information, which we can now guarantee.662Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, our preference is for the ICC to be used in respect of the findings of the International Commission of Inquiry into the crimes in Darfur. However, the ICC statute provides that when a state is not a state party to the ICC statute, and Sudan is not, a referral of that state to the International Criminal Court can be made only by a decision of the Security Council. That will require consensus in the council. We are discussing the way forward with Security Council partners.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that cautious and delicately phrased Answer. We understand that it is the United States and China which represent potential problems on the UN Security Council. We also understand that a small number of right-wing think tanks in Washington have built up the International Criminal Court into a threat to American sovereignty. Cannot Her Majesty's Government, as America's closest and most loyal ally, with a Prime Minister who is listened to better in Washington than any other, persuade the Bush Administration that on this occasion the International Criminal Court is, as the British ambassador to the UN has been widely quoted as saying, tailor-made for that and that the substitution of another expensive and inefficient ad hoc tribunal, as some in the United States wish, would be not just a second best but a fifth best?Lord Wallace of Saltaire
663: My Lords, the noble Lord knows how much we have tried to persuade the United States to sign up to the ICC. It is not only the United States, but also a number of other countries, which have deemed it in their own national interest not to do so. The noble Lord was right when he said that it is not only the United States which has difficulty with this as one of the five permanent members of the Security Council; there are others in that position too.663Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
"The Government will not accept any official to go to any (legal) organ outside this country".: My Lords, whether the issue is referred to the International Criminal Court or to a local African tribunal, is not the real problem the attitude of the Sudanese Government? Did the noble Baroness note the defiant speech made at the weekend in Darfur at El Fasher by the Sudanese Vice-President, Ali Osman Taha? He said:
"The Government will not accept any official to go to any (legal) organ outside this country".Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, there is no difference between the noble Lord, Lord Alton, and myself on the gravity of the situation in Darfur. I repeat that there is no difference at all. However, the question being addressed here is the right way to proceed in dealing with those very people who the noble Lord mentions as having been complicit in some extremely serious crimes in Darfur.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, following on from the question asked by the noble Lord, Lord Alton, what steps are the Government taking to ensure that the Sudanese Government do not block African Union monitors from investigating ceasefire violations?Lord Astor of Hever
664: My Lords, as the noble Lord knows, we have been engaged very heavily in trying to ensure that not only African Union monitors but also African Union troops on the ground are able to do their jobs properly. I understand that as of today there are 1,850 African Union troops on the ground. More are expected to be placed there within the next few weeks.664Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, did not the International Commission of Inquiry recommend that the sealed indictment be handed over immediately to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court? Would it not be possible for the Security Council to so decide without prejudice to the question of which court would ultimately try those indicted? The prosecutor of the ICC would then be able to prepare the cases. If in its wisdom the Security Council decided to set up an ad hoc tribunal on the lines of the Abuja International Criminal Tribunal, the preparation could already have been done by the chief prosecutor for the ICC.Lord Avebury
: My Lords, yes. Of course it is possible for the Security Council to decide. But individual members of the Security Council have said that they will not; it is members who hold the veto. Everything that the noble Lord says may be true, in exactly the same way that everything that the noble Lord, Lord Alton, said, may be true. Indeed, the Government agree with much of what has been said.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
680: My Lords, I should just point out that the Joint Committee considered this matter, and the evidence that we received was overwhelmingly in support of the Government's intention to introduce these three conditions into the Bill. We welcome the extension of the definition to include HIV, cancer and multiple sclerosis. As the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, said, everyone believed that multiple sclerosis was covered until there was a court case which showed, surprisingly, that it was not. Therefore, it was included. The point that the Government are dealing with here relates to the discrimination and the stigma and not the actual disability.680Lord Carter
685: My Lords, I listened carefully to the arguments produced on this by my noble friend the Minister in Committee. All of us can agree from our experience that we have known people who have had what I would describe as a minor incident, usually skin cancer, which has been dealt with by one visit to hospital and that is the end of it. As I am sure your
685Lord Carter
: My Lords, I remind the House that if the amendment is agreed to, I cannot call Amendment No. 66 because of pre-emption.The Deputy Speaker
: My Lords, if this amendment is agreed to, I cannot then call Amendment No. 68 by reason of pre-emption.The Deputy Speaker
: My Lords, if this amendment is accepted, I cannot call Amendment No. 73 by reason of pre-emption.The Deputy Speaker
: My Lords, I remind the House that if this amendment is agreed to. I cannot then call Amendment No. 63 because of pre-emption.The Deputy Speaker (Baroness Fookes)
: The way in which the Bill has been conducted is a remarkable testament to how this House can work. If anything can be seen as an example, it is this. I start with my noble friend downwards because that is the way it has been. I hope that she will reflect on which checks and balance are appropriate.Lord Christopher
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister and her officials for having met me to discuss my concerns about Clause 17. I would like to explain such concerns and seek something on the record to meet them.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
Government by Inquiry707"the fact that any person or organisation who may have cause to apprehend the possibility of criticism in the course of, or as a result of, the proceedings may reasonably wish to be legally represented at the inquiry"."Subject to any provision of this Act or of rules under section 38, the procedure and conduct of an inquiry are to be such as the chairman of the inquiry may direct".: My Lords, I shall not repeat anything that I said in Grand Committee. While I entirely agree with the closing words of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe of Aberavon, about fairness being the overriding principle, I shall briefly seek to explain why I do not feel able to give wholehearted support to his watered-down, diluted amendment which now creates no presumption either way.Government by Inquiry707"the fact that any person or organisation who may have cause to apprehend the possibility of criticism in the course of, or as a result of, the proceedings may reasonably wish to be legally represented at the inquiry"."Subject to any provision of this Act or of rules under section 38, the procedure and conduct of an inquiry are to be such as the chairman of the inquiry may direct".Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I would say that it would not be possible. To exclude the right of legal representation or the opportunity for it where a person is facing serious pains and penalties in the course of an inquiry would be so unfair that, if it were to be put forward as a rule-making provision, the Lord Chancellor would face a serious risk of a successful judicial review.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, before the noble and learned Lord sits down, would he be content if the Bill made clear that there had to be fair procedures? If that was written into the primary legislation would that meet his point?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
(4) Section 37(1)(b) of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13) (certain inquiry records etc exempt from obligations under that Act) does not apply in relation to information contained in documents that, in pursuance of rules under section 38(1)(aa) below, have been passed to and are held by a Scottish public authority."(3) Section 32(2) of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36) (certain inquiry records etc exempt from obligations under that Act) does not apply in relation to information contained in documents that, in pursuance of rules under section 38(1)(aa) below, have been passed to and are held by a public authority.(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or
(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or(2) No recording or broadcast of proceedings at an inquiry may be made except—
(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or
(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or710(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;
(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;(1) Subject to any restrictions imposed by a notice or order under section 17, the chairman must take such steps as he considers reasonable to secure that members of the public (including reporters) are able—
(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;
(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;"Public access to inquiry proceedings and informationAfter Clause 16, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 52:
(4) Section 37(1)(b) of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13) (certain inquiry records etc exempt from obligations under that Act) does not apply in relation to information contained in documents that, in pursuance of rules under section 38(1)(aa) below, have been passed to and are held by a Scottish public authority."(3) Section 32(2) of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36) (certain inquiry records etc exempt from obligations under that Act) does not apply in relation to information contained in documents that, in pursuance of rules under section 38(1)(aa) below, have been passed to and are held by a public authority.(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or
(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or(2) No recording or broadcast of proceedings at an inquiry may be made except—
(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or
(b) with the permission of the chairman and in accordance with any terms on which permission is given.(a) at the request of the chairman, or710(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;
(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;(1) Subject to any restrictions imposed by a notice or order under section 17, the chairman must take such steps as he considers reasonable to secure that members of the public (including reporters) are able—
(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;
(b) to obtain or to view a record of evidence and documents given, produced or provided to the inquiry or inquiry panel.(a) to attend the inquiry or to see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceedings at the inquiry;"Public access to inquiry proceedings and informationAfter Clause 16, insert the following new clause—The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, while I see force in what the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, is proposing, is he not going too far in the opposite direction? I can understand why he says that at day 20 of an inquiry, when the chairman is fully in the saddle, it is for the chairman and not the Minister to decide what to control. But when setting up an inquiry or before an inquiry has got under way, why should a Minister not say, "I am setting up this inquiry but I should like to make it plain from the start that information in the following categories will not be disclosed and will not be disclosable"? Alternatively, he could say, "Certain parts of the inquiry, relating to x and y, shall be held in private". It would then be open to the proposed chairman to say, "I don't want to embark on an inquiry on that limited basis. If you're going to restrict it as much as that, you won't get me".Viscount Bledisloe
667Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: My Lords, I support the amendment tabled by the noble Lords, Lord Skelmersdale and Lord Higgins. I do so in order to clarify further the Government's approach to and understanding of the profound impact of certain kinds of major depressive disorder. Once again I refer to a clinical disorder which is recognised in the 667Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental DisordersBaroness Murphy
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister and to all noble Lords who have spoken in the debate. I shall respond briefly. The noble Viscount, Lord Bledisloe, asked whether it would not be all right if the Minister, at the outset of the inquiry, imposed certain constraints—for example, with respect to public security—and made that a condition for the chairman to abide by when undertaking the inquiry. That, for me, would not be a problem because it could form part of the terms of reference of the inquiry.Lord Kingsland
Page 7, line 40, leave out "inhibit the allaying of" and insert "cause" moved Amendment No. 57:
Page 7, line 40, leave out "inhibit the allaying of" and insert "cause"Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, as I said, I do not agree that my amendment would have the effect that the Minister claims. I believe that it would simply more felicitously express what the Minister seeks to express herself. Since the matter does not go to the substance of the clause. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
Official Report,"My notes state that I accept that the presumption would be even more apparent if we started with subsection (6) and then followed it with subsections on restrictions, but it does not say in my notes that I shall therefore go away and rewrite the clause. I shall reconsider the matter but the amendment does no more than is already in the Bill". —[Official Report,"( ) In proceeding under this section, the chairman must start from the presumption that public access should not be restricted."Page 8, line 14, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 61:
Official Report,"My notes state that I accept that the presumption would be even more apparent if we started with subsection (6) and then followed it with subsections on restrictions, but it does not say in my notes that I shall therefore go away and rewrite the clause. I shall reconsider the matter but the amendment does no more than is already in the Bill". —[Official Report,"( ) In proceeding under this section, the chairman must start from the presumption that public access should not be restricted."Page 8, line 14, at end insert—Lord Kingsland
718: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for drawing our attention to that amendment, which of course I have seen. I must say that it did not immediately strike me as having the
718Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I simply add that we entirely share the views that have just been expressed by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart.Lord Kingsland
Page 11, line 6, leave out "Minister, or the chairman if subsection (2) applies," and insert "chairman" moved Amendment No. 78:
Page 11, line 6, leave out "Minister, or the chairman if subsection (2) applies," and insert "chairman"Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful for the noble Baroness's response. Her amendment, while welcome, does not go far enough to meet my central concern. However, I shall not put the amendment to the test tonight, but shall go away and reflect on whether I can come up with a further amendment that might take the noble Baroness a little further down the road that I want her to take, without perhaps going as far as this amendment. In those circumstances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I simply express my gratitude to the noble Baroness.Lord Kingsland
Leave out Schedule 3. moved Amendment No. 116:
Leave out Schedule 3.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. In those circumstances, I feel compelled to withdraw my amendment.Lord Kingsland
711locus classicusPage 7, line 27, leave out "either or both of the following ways" and insert "the following way". moved Amendment No. 53:
711locus classicusPage 7, line 27, leave out "either or both of the following ways" and insert "the following way".Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for responding in the way that she has to the discussion that we had in Committee about Clauses 14 and 15. The noble Baroness will recall that we had two concerns about the powers contained in the clauses.Lord Kingsland
693"for any other reason",Page 5, line 11, leave out "consult" and insert "secure the agreement of" moved Amendment No. 32:
693"for any other reason",Page 5, line 11, leave out "consult" and insert "secure the agreement of"Lord Kingsland
"or for any other reason",: My Lords, while, of course, being grateful for the Minister's reply, I cannot disguise the fact that I am extremely disappointed by it."or for any other reason",Lord Kingsland
Official Report,"In constructing this clause, we have clearly not done what we intended to do".—[Official Report,696"(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or"—"For the purposes of this Act an inquiry comes to an end—Page 6, line 5, at end insert "after consulting with and securing the agreement of the chairman" moved Amendment No. 38:
Official Report,"In constructing this clause, we have clearly not done what we intended to do".—[Official Report,696"(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or"—"For the purposes of this Act an inquiry comes to an end—Page 6, line 5, at end insert "after consulting with and securing the agreement of the chairman"Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, one of the many reasons why I admire the noble Lord, Lord Evans of Temple Guiting, so much is that he is a man of transparent honesty. I can think of very few occasions when I have heard from the government Benches an admission that what had been said at an earlier stage of the Bill was exactly as it was interpreted by the opposition Front Bench. I am most grateful.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful. I do not think that the noble Lord, Lord Evans of Temple Guiting, should apologise for coming back. Although this is Report stage, the Bill was debated in Grand Committee in the Moses Room and therefore this is the first opportunity that we have had to deal with those matters on the Floor of the House. In my submission, therefore, it is wholly appropriate that greater flexibility should apply to our deliberations. I am most grateful to the noble Lord for his response. In those circumstances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
769"PGO had accordingly commissioned a further external review of its cashier's branch by consultants to assess the extent of the problems highlighted … That review had been completed on 26 March 2003. One of its conclusions was that it confirmed there had been 'a long-term systemic failure to manage [client] accounts in line with modern professional standards. Client accounts have never been audited'. A number of action points were noted which, it was stated, 'should finally bring the Receivership Branch into good order, and leave it fit for purpose for the future'. To take those action points forward, PGO formed a Receivership Project Group comprising representatives from Internal Assurance division, Performance Monitoring Unit, Court Funds Office, Official Solicitor and Public Trustee and Finance Division to take 'an integrated approach to rectifying and monitoring the management of receivership cases and receivership cashiers' … The Receivership project had a wide scope, including a management review of the regulation and statutory requirements, definition of procedures and controls, the reconfiguration of the accounting system, reconciliation of bank accounts, preparation of stewardship accounts for the previous two years, specification of the staff training required, and following through on the action points arising from the quality review"."It is quite clear from the papers I have seen that the major reviews that PGO initiated in May 2002 onwards were in direct response to the concerns raised by Lord Iliffe in relation to Miss Laurence's case. Further, the decision to extend the quality audit to those cases which had already been transferred from PGO's receivership to that of a panel or family member was also in response to Lord Iliffe's own suggestion that that would he the most appropriate way forward".768"Whilst I appreciate that the PGO as Receiver has to be assured that funds are properly managed, they also need to have regard to the fact that carers have a very demanding role which is often both physically and mentally exhausting. A carer plays a highly significant role in the client's life and it seems to me that they should he accorded appropriate respect, and dealings with them should be handled with due sensitivity. It also seemed likely to me that many of those family members to whom PGO have transferred Receiverships would also be carers, and would probably need some level of support in carrying out their Receivership duties. I therefore ask the Chief Executive whether
768"The evidence clearly shows that Lord Iliffe's later comment to the Chief Executive (in their meeting of 30 January 2002) that he felt that Miss Laurence was being treated as a number was sadly apt"."extraordinarily insensitive and inappropriate, and merit the Ombudsman's strongest criticism"."I think it highly unacceptable for it to be suggested that PGO's duty as a public body dictates an approach which means errors will not be rectified as soon as they are discovered"."represents a significant systemic failing which could cause those trying to monitor the accounts considerable frustration and inconvenience. What is perhaps even more alarming is the fact that the two occasions when this occurred in this case were some ten years apart, highlighting that this problem had not been identified over an unacceptably long period of time, which in turn suggests a totally unacceptable level of scrutiny of all such accounts throughout that time. Given that PGO were looking after the affairs of people amongst the most vulnerable in the country, that exceptionally poor administration merits the very strongest criticism"."have to agree with Lord Iliffe that poor record keeping and inadequate systems inevitably mean that there is a higher risk of fraudulent activity being able to take place".767766"This Framework Document sets the framework in which the Public Guardianship Office will operate it also sets out the Public Guardianship Office's responsibility to all those who use its services and its ultimate accountability to me"."The Public Guardianship Office is committed to making a difference to its clients. It will not be remote: it will work in partnership with Receivers, and others, to protect and manage the financial affairs of some of the most vulnerable members of society. The Public Guardianship Office will deliver better customer service, and will be more accessible to its clients. For Receivers, this will mean a vastly improved advice and information system, available locally wherever possible—a service which supports as well as monitors. It will be a personalised service, designed to meet the needs of individuals. The staff of the Public Guardianship Office will be fully trained, effectively led and managed, and equipped with the tools to do a difficult job in a modern environment".765"( ) providing to P's donee of a lasting power of attorney an annual set of accounts on the financial status of P."Page 31, line 17, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 196A:
769"PGO had accordingly commissioned a further external review of its cashier's branch by consultants to assess the extent of the problems highlighted … That review had been completed on 26 March 2003. One of its conclusions was that it confirmed there had been 'a long-term systemic failure to manage [client] accounts in line with modern professional standards. Client accounts have never been audited'. A number of action points were noted which, it was stated, 'should finally bring the Receivership Branch into good order, and leave it fit for purpose for the future'. To take those action points forward, PGO formed a Receivership Project Group comprising representatives from Internal Assurance division, Performance Monitoring Unit, Court Funds Office, Official Solicitor and Public Trustee and Finance Division to take 'an integrated approach to rectifying and monitoring the management of receivership cases and receivership cashiers' … The Receivership project had a wide scope, including a management review of the regulation and statutory requirements, definition of procedures and controls, the reconfiguration of the accounting system, reconciliation of bank accounts, preparation of stewardship accounts for the previous two years, specification of the staff training required, and following through on the action points arising from the quality review"."It is quite clear from the papers I have seen that the major reviews that PGO initiated in May 2002 onwards were in direct response to the concerns raised by Lord Iliffe in relation to Miss Laurence's case. Further, the decision to extend the quality audit to those cases which had already been transferred from PGO's receivership to that of a panel or family member was also in response to Lord Iliffe's own suggestion that that would he the most appropriate way forward".768"Whilst I appreciate that the PGO as Receiver has to be assured that funds are properly managed, they also need to have regard to the fact that carers have a very demanding role which is often both physically and mentally exhausting. A carer plays a highly significant role in the client's life and it seems to me that they should he accorded appropriate respect, and dealings with them should be handled with due sensitivity. It also seemed likely to me that many of those family members to whom PGO have transferred Receiverships would also be carers, and would probably need some level of support in carrying out their Receivership duties. I therefore ask the Chief Executive whether
768"The evidence clearly shows that Lord Iliffe's later comment to the Chief Executive (in their meeting of 30 January 2002) that he felt that Miss Laurence was being treated as a number was sadly apt"."extraordinarily insensitive and inappropriate, and merit the Ombudsman's strongest criticism"."I think it highly unacceptable for it to be suggested that PGO's duty as a public body dictates an approach which means errors will not be rectified as soon as they are discovered"."represents a significant systemic failing which could cause those trying to monitor the accounts considerable frustration and inconvenience. What is perhaps even more alarming is the fact that the two occasions when this occurred in this case were some ten years apart, highlighting that this problem had not been identified over an unacceptably long period of time, which in turn suggests a totally unacceptable level of scrutiny of all such accounts throughout that time. Given that PGO were looking after the affairs of people amongst the most vulnerable in the country, that exceptionally poor administration merits the very strongest criticism"."have to agree with Lord Iliffe that poor record keeping and inadequate systems inevitably mean that there is a higher risk of fraudulent activity being able to take place".767766"This Framework Document sets the framework in which the Public Guardianship Office will operate it also sets out the Public Guardianship Office's responsibility to all those who use its services and its ultimate accountability to me"."The Public Guardianship Office is committed to making a difference to its clients. It will not be remote: it will work in partnership with Receivers, and others, to protect and manage the financial affairs of some of the most vulnerable members of society. The Public Guardianship Office will deliver better customer service, and will be more accessible to its clients. For Receivers, this will mean a vastly improved advice and information system, available locally wherever possible—a service which supports as well as monitors. It will be a personalised service, designed to meet the needs of individuals. The staff of the Public Guardianship Office will be fully trained, effectively led and managed, and equipped with the tools to do a difficult job in a modern environment".765"( ) providing to P's donee of a lasting power of attorney an annual set of accounts on the financial status of P."Page 31, line 17, at end insert—Lord Kingsland
773: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her very full reply in response to my opening remarks.773Lord Kingsland
774: I entirely accept that. I think that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, and I agree that this
774Lord Kingsland
"( ) Regulations under this section may not be made unless a draft of a statutory instrument containing the regulations has been laid before and approved by both Houses of Parliament."Page 31, line 25, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 196B:
"( ) Regulations under this section may not be made unless a draft of a statutory instrument containing the regulations has been laid before and approved by both Houses of Parliament."Page 31, line 25, at end insert—Lord Kingsland
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness for her response. In those circumstances I shall do nothing more than beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
(b) to any special knowledge or experience that it is reasonable to expect of a person acting in the course of that kind of business or profession."(a) to any special knowledge or experience that he has or holds himself out as having, and
(b) to any special knowledge or experience that it is reasonable to expect of a person acting in the course of that kind of business or profession."(a) to any special knowledge or experience that he has or holds himself out as having, and(8) In exercising his functions as trustee under subsection (7) the Public Guardian must exercise such care and skill as is reasonable in the circumstances, having regard in particular—"(7) The Public Guardian acts as trustee in respect of monies he receives on behalf of P.Page 31, line 45, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 196C:
(b) to any special knowledge or experience that it is reasonable to expect of a person acting in the course of that kind of business or profession."(a) to any special knowledge or experience that he has or holds himself out as having, and
(b) to any special knowledge or experience that it is reasonable to expect of a person acting in the course of that kind of business or profession."(a) to any special knowledge or experience that he has or holds himself out as having, and(8) In exercising his functions as trustee under subsection (7) the Public Guardian must exercise such care and skill as is reasonable in the circumstances, having regard in particular—"(7) The Public Guardian acts as trustee in respect of monies he receives on behalf of P.Page 31, line 45, at end insert—Lord Kingsland
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness for informing your Lordships' House that the Public Guardian has never been a trustee in law. I understand that the Public Guardian is not a trustee but an agent in law. That is one of the reasons why I tabled the amendment. Had the Public Guardian remained responsible for the trust funds, it would be appropriate for him to have been subject to all the responsibilities to which a trustee in private law is responsible. That is now all water under the bridge. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
776"( ) A Court of Protection Visitor must write a report after any interview with P conducted under this section and a copy of the report must be sent to P's donee of a lasting power of attorney."Page 32, line 27, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 196D:
776"( ) A Court of Protection Visitor must write a report after any interview with P conducted under this section and a copy of the report must be sent to P's donee of a lasting power of attorney."Page 32, line 27, at end insert—Lord Kingsland
status quo: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her reply. Clearly, in the case of Miss Laurence there was a complete breakdown between those who were supposed to be reporting on her care and those who were supposed to be providing her with her money. So, while I entirely accept the noble Baroness's reservations about my amendment, at the same time she must surely agree that the status quoLord Kingsland
: I am most grateful. In those circumstances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
779(Annual report)."(7) The Board must prepare an annual report on its activities and that report must be included in the annual report laid before Parliament under section (Annual report)."(6) If the Board has a concern about any aspect of the Public Guardian, including his discharge of his functions, the Board may make a special report to the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chancellor must publish that report unless requested not to do so by the Board.(5) The Public Guardian must make monthly reports to the Board on matters which the Board thinks are relevant and must provide the Board with such other information as the Board may reasonably require.(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and(4) It is the duty of the Board to supervise the Public Guardian—(3) The Board is to consist of no fewer than 9 members, of whom at least three shall be a registered medical practitioner and at least three shall be a certified or chartered accountant.(2) The Board is to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a non-executive board, to be known as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision.
(Annual report)."(7) The Board must prepare an annual report on its activities and that report must be included in the annual report laid before Parliament under section (Annual report)."(6) If the Board has a concern about any aspect of the Public Guardian, including his discharge of his functions, the Board may make a special report to the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chancellor must publish that report unless requested not to do so by the Board.(5) The Public Guardian must make monthly reports to the Board on matters which the Board thinks are relevant and must provide the Board with such other information as the Board may reasonably require.(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and(4) It is the duty of the Board to supervise the Public Guardian—(3) The Board is to consist of no fewer than 9 members, of whom at least three shall be a registered medical practitioner and at least three shall be a certified or chartered accountant.(2) The Board is to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a non-executive board, to be known as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision."THE BOARD OF PUBLIC GUARDIANSHIP SUPERVISIONAfter Clause 57, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 196EA:
779(Annual report)."(7) The Board must prepare an annual report on its activities and that report must be included in the annual report laid before Parliament under section (Annual report)."(6) If the Board has a concern about any aspect of the Public Guardian, including his discharge of his functions, the Board may make a special report to the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chancellor must publish that report unless requested not to do so by the Board.(5) The Public Guardian must make monthly reports to the Board on matters which the Board thinks are relevant and must provide the Board with such other information as the Board may reasonably require.(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and(4) It is the duty of the Board to supervise the Public Guardian—(3) The Board is to consist of no fewer than 9 members, of whom at least three shall be a registered medical practitioner and at least three shall be a certified or chartered accountant.(2) The Board is to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a non-executive board, to be known as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision.
(Annual report)."(7) The Board must prepare an annual report on its activities and that report must be included in the annual report laid before Parliament under section (Annual report)."(6) If the Board has a concern about any aspect of the Public Guardian, including his discharge of his functions, the Board may make a special report to the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chancellor must publish that report unless requested not to do so by the Board.(5) The Public Guardian must make monthly reports to the Board on matters which the Board thinks are relevant and must provide the Board with such other information as the Board may reasonably require.(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) in the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act, and(4) It is the duty of the Board to supervise the Public Guardian—(3) The Board is to consist of no fewer than 9 members, of whom at least three shall be a registered medical practitioner and at least three shall be a certified or chartered accountant.(2) The Board is to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a non-executive board, to be known as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision."THE BOARD OF PUBLIC GUARDIANSHIP SUPERVISIONAfter Clause 57, insert the following new clause—Lord Kingsland
780: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for the manner in which she has responded
780Lord Kingsland
(c) such other matters as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision may from time to time direct."(b) the extent to which, in his opinion, the objectives of the office have been met; and(a) the discharge of the Public Guardian's functions;
(c) such other matters as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision may from time to time direct."(b) the extent to which, in his opinion, the objectives of the office have been met; and(a) the discharge of the Public Guardian's functions;The Lord Chancellor must lay an annual report before Parliament on—"ANNUAL REPORTAfter Clause 57, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 1961:
(c) such other matters as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision may from time to time direct."(b) the extent to which, in his opinion, the objectives of the office have been met; and(a) the discharge of the Public Guardian's functions;
(c) such other matters as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision may from time to time direct."(b) the extent to which, in his opinion, the objectives of the office have been met; and(a) the discharge of the Public Guardian's functions;The Lord Chancellor must lay an annual report before Parliament on—"ANNUAL REPORTAfter Clause 57, insert the following new clause—Lord Kingsland
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. In the circumstances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
738"Too costly to be kept alive".Daily Mail"a summary of the cost to the National Health Service of legal proceedings arising out of any of those medical treatment decisions"."a summary of all offences reported and convictions recorded in relation to those medical treatment decisions";"a summary of all applications to the court in relation to those medical treatment decisions";737"where such decisions were followed by the death of P"."where such decisions were followed by disability or continuing disability of P";"where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC"—"where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment";"where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment";"a summary, by type of treatment, of medical treatmert decisions made by deputies and donees of lasting powers of attorney within the reporting period".736(d) a summary of the cost to the National Health Service of legal proceedings arising out of any of those medical treatment decisions."(c) a summary of all offences reported and convictions recorded in relation to those medical treatment decisions; and(b) a summary of all applications to the Court in relation to those medical treatment decisions;(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;
(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;(a) a summary, by type of treatment, of medical treatment decisions made by deputies and donees of lasting powers of attorney within the reporting period, indicating—
(d) a summary of the cost to the National Health Service of legal proceedings arising out of any of those medical treatment decisions."(c) a summary of all offences reported and convictions recorded in relation to those medical treatment decisions; and(b) a summary of all applications to the Court in relation to those medical treatment decisions;(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;
(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;(a) a summary, by type of treatment, of medical treatment decisions made by deputies and donees of lasting powers of attorney within the reporting period, indicating—(5) The report shall contain—(4) The report shall be laid before Parliament and published before 31st December in each year.(3) The appropriate authority shall prepare and present a report on such medical treatment decisions and related information.(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) above it shall be the duty of such bodies from whom such information is to be collected, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in subsection (1) above, to maintain a record of any medical treatment decisions affecting any person in their care or for whom they are responsible where such decision is made by a deputy or by a donee of a lasting powers of attorney appointed under this Act, together with the related information specified in subection (5) below.(1) The appropriate authority shall make provision by regulation for the maintenance of a record of all medical treatment decisions made by deputies and by donees of lasting powers of attorney, and the related information specified in subsection (5) below, and for that purpose the appropriate authority shall also make provision by regulation for the collection of such information from NHS bodies, local authorities and any other public bodies the appropriate authority shall stipulate.
(5) The report shall contain—(4) The report shall be laid before Parliament and published before 31st December in each year.(3) The appropriate authority shall prepare and present a report on such medical treatment decisions and related information.(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) above it shall be the duty of such bodies from whom such information is to be collected, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in subsection (1) above, to maintain a record of any medical treatment decisions affecting any person in their care or for whom they are responsible where such decision is made by a deputy or by a donee of a lasting powers of attorney appointed under this Act, together with the related information specified in subection (5) below.(1) The appropriate authority shall make provision by regulation for the maintenance of a record of all medical treatment decisions made by deputies and by donees of lasting powers of attorney, and the related information specified in subsection (5) below, and for that purpose the appropriate authority shall also make provision by regulation for the collection of such information from NHS bodies, local authorities and any other public bodies the appropriate authority shall stipulate.After Clause 41, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 178:
738"Too costly to be kept alive".Daily Mail"a summary of the cost to the National Health Service of legal proceedings arising out of any of those medical treatment decisions"."a summary of all offences reported and convictions recorded in relation to those medical treatment decisions";"a summary of all applications to the court in relation to those medical treatment decisions";737"where such decisions were followed by the death of P"."where such decisions were followed by disability or continuing disability of P";"where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC"—"where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment";"where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment";"a summary, by type of treatment, of medical treatmert decisions made by deputies and donees of lasting powers of attorney within the reporting period".736(d) a summary of the cost to the National Health Service of legal proceedings arising out of any of those medical treatment decisions."(c) a summary of all offences reported and convictions recorded in relation to those medical treatment decisions; and(b) a summary of all applications to the Court in relation to those medical treatment decisions;(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;
(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;(a) a summary, by type of treatment, of medical treatment decisions made by deputies and donees of lasting powers of attorney within the reporting period, indicating—
(d) a summary of the cost to the National Health Service of legal proceedings arising out of any of those medical treatment decisions."(c) a summary of all offences reported and convictions recorded in relation to those medical treatment decisions; and(b) a summary of all applications to the Court in relation to those medical treatment decisions;(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;
(v) where such decisions were followed by the death of P;(iv) where such decisions were followed by the disability or continuing disability of P;(iii) where such decisions were followed by a serious adverse event or reaction in relation to P within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph O of Directive 2001/20/EC;(ii) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of life-sustaining treatment;(i) where such decisions resulted in the withdrawing and withholding of medical treatment;(a) a summary, by type of treatment, of medical treatment decisions made by deputies and donees of lasting powers of attorney within the reporting period, indicating—(5) The report shall contain—(4) The report shall be laid before Parliament and published before 31st December in each year.(3) The appropriate authority shall prepare and present a report on such medical treatment decisions and related information.(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) above it shall be the duty of such bodies from whom such information is to be collected, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in subsection (1) above, to maintain a record of any medical treatment decisions affecting any person in their care or for whom they are responsible where such decision is made by a deputy or by a donee of a lasting powers of attorney appointed under this Act, together with the related information specified in subection (5) below.(1) The appropriate authority shall make provision by regulation for the maintenance of a record of all medical treatment decisions made by deputies and by donees of lasting powers of attorney, and the related information specified in subsection (5) below, and for that purpose the appropriate authority shall also make provision by regulation for the collection of such information from NHS bodies, local authorities and any other public bodies the appropriate authority shall stipulate.
(5) The report shall contain—(4) The report shall be laid before Parliament and published before 31st December in each year.(3) The appropriate authority shall prepare and present a report on such medical treatment decisions and related information.(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) above it shall be the duty of such bodies from whom such information is to be collected, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in subsection (1) above, to maintain a record of any medical treatment decisions affecting any person in their care or for whom they are responsible where such decision is made by a deputy or by a donee of a lasting powers of attorney appointed under this Act, together with the related information specified in subection (5) below.(1) The appropriate authority shall make provision by regulation for the maintenance of a record of all medical treatment decisions made by deputies and by donees of lasting powers of attorney, and the related information specified in subsection (5) below, and for that purpose the appropriate authority shall also make provision by regulation for the collection of such information from NHS bodies, local authorities and any other public bodies the appropriate authority shall stipulate.After Clause 41, insert the following new clause—Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I am grateful to the Minister. Could she identify the areas that, she feels, would be in addition to those that she has already identified about which information will already be in the public domain through the Office of the Public Guardian and others?Lord Alton of Liverpool
: I am grateful to the Minister for the points that she has made to the Committee. I shall reflect further on the matter.Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, getting to know the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, in the process of considering the draft legislation, I found that he had a very subtle hand with which he wielded a stiletto or scalpel. Here he has very successfully done that by not concentrating on the disability discrimination part of the Bill. He may well have a case in saying that the list of conditions should be more exhaustive, but it includes conditions which lead to discrimination before symptoms show.Lord Addington
669: My Lords, I shall be brief. Noble Lords who have been dealing with the Bill have been trying to square the circle on depression. There is clearly discrimination based on preconceptions about what depression means. It is thought that people will not be able to do things. The model that we are using does not fit depression, the most common of mental conditions. I hope that the Government will he able to move some way towards our position in Committee on the amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale. Something must be done. If this is not it, will the
669Lord Addington
744"( ) is appointed by the Secretary of State for Works and Pensions"Page 24, line 37, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 179:
744"( ) is appointed by the Secretary of State for Works and Pensions"Page 24, line 37, at end insert—Earl Howe
748: This has been a useful debate. I am grateful to the Minister for so fully covering all the points that have been raised. I am grateful also to noble Lords for their support.748Earl Howe
: Once again, it has been a good short debate, and I am grateful to the Minister for her helpful reply. I found the intervention by the noble Lord, Lord Christopher, very welcome. I agreed entirely with what he said. If I may say so, he put it extremely well.Earl Howe
757"an additional safeguard mechanism by which the Court of Protection or the Public Guardian could monitor the use of LPAs with a view to preventing the abuse and exploitation of a donee's powers"."(i)"Page 30, line 40, after "maintaining" insert— moved Amendment No. 192:
757"an additional safeguard mechanism by which the Court of Protection or the Public Guardian could monitor the use of LPAs with a view to preventing the abuse and exploitation of a donee's powers"."(i)"Page 30, line 40, after "maintaining" insert—Earl Howe
709: My Lords, I am most grateful for the way in which the Minister has presented her position, beguiling as it is. I am delighted to be beguiled. I hope that she will forgive me if I conclude by recapping the central point.709Lord Howe of Aberavon
701"the extent to which any person or organisation who may be the subject of criticism in course of, or as a result of, the proceedings may, as a matter of fairness, require legal representation"."(a)"Page 7, line 20, after first "to" insert—  moved Amendment No. 49:
701"the extent to which any person or organisation who may be the subject of criticism in course of, or as a result of, the proceedings may, as a matter of fairness, require legal representation"."(a)"Page 7, line 20, after first "to" insert— Lord Howe of Aberavon
"the objectives of effectiveness and fairness should not, as a matter of principle, be sacrificed to the interests of speed and economy"."and the inquiry should prevent any abuse of the opportunity to be heard, it may be counterproductive to start from the position that legal representatives will only be heard exceptionally. The inquiry should be ready to exercise its discretion in favour of hearing legal representatives and oral testimony and allowing cross-examination whenever it seems appropriate"."In short, although legal representation should not be regarded as an automatic right"—"while minimising the adversarial, legalistic element of inquiries","We recommend that the procedures followed by inquiries in the last ten years should be reviewed. In particular there should be a re-evaluation of how to ensure fairness within the inquisitorial process while minimising the adversarial, legalistic element of inquiries"."The Inquiries Bill is in some ways an attempt to redress the worst excesses of the Salmon principles which have reached their nadir in the Saville Inquiry. The time has clearly come to reformulate the Salmon principles".705"We do need to introduce these principles there within reason. and where it is appropriate"."Only Lord Howe, sharply critical of the Scott inquiry argued for retention of the full Salmon principles"."The Inquiries Bill places the chairman under an obligation to have regard to costs in his running of the inquiry so the chairman must consider cost implications of permitting legal involvement"."To mitigate concerns that rules will lead to more claims for representation there could be a presumption against legal representation unless the chairman is satisfied certain circumstances apply".704"Lord Cullen allowed people to be parties 'if they were able to show an interest, in some aspect of the subject matter of the inquiry which as a matter of fairness required protection by such [legal] representation"."as a matter of fairness".Official Report,"to raise, as I fear the noble Lord's amendment does, an almost irrebuttable presumption that if anyone may have cause to apprehend the possibility of criticism and may reasonably wish to be legally represented, he is allowed to do so, is to perpetuate the present system which the public see as an abuse and a gross waste of money".—[Official Report,Official Report,"So I am entirely sympathetic with the object of the amendment".—[Official Report,"fairness requires anyone who is in serious risk of pains and penalties to be legally represented. I also agree that there are serious cases where the right to cross-examination should be allowed … I thought that what happened in the Scott inquiry was not fair".Official Report,"I do not think that the chairman should be invited to start with any presumption for or against the giving of legal representation. It depends on the circumstances of each case".—[Official Report,"So I cannot say that I disagree with what the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe, said. He undoubtedly has a very strong point to make. But one has to look at these issues with proportionality in mind"."My view is that the Salmon report goes too far for modern times".703"Most witnesses who had played leading roles in the story had legal representation. We made it plain that they were welcome to have their lawyers sitting beside them but that lawyers were expected to play a backseat role at the hearing. A short opening statement and a little re-examination was acceptable, but in essence, the proceedings were to be inquisitorial not adversarial"."deserve further urgent investigation … it will be very desirable to have legal representatives present to whom we can turn for assistance".702"In many cases the assistance of lawyers in identifying and preparing the evidence will be essential … I would hope that those Departments or other bodies which played a major part in the story will instruct Counsel to attend the hearing, or at least those parts of the hearing with which they are particularly concerned, in order to assist with the presentation of evidence, or any other way that may appear desirable".: My Lords, I am delighted by that support from my noble friend."the objectives of effectiveness and fairness should not, as a matter of principle, be sacrificed to the interests of speed and economy"."and the inquiry should prevent any abuse of the opportunity to be heard, it may be counterproductive to start from the position that legal representatives will only be heard exceptionally. The inquiry should be ready to exercise its discretion in favour of hearing legal representatives and oral testimony and allowing cross-examination whenever it seems appropriate"."In short, although legal representation should not be regarded as an automatic right"—"while minimising the adversarial, legalistic element of inquiries","We recommend that the procedures followed by inquiries in the last ten years should be reviewed. In particular there should be a re-evaluation of how to ensure fairness within the inquisitorial process while minimising the adversarial, legalistic element of inquiries"."The Inquiries Bill is in some ways an attempt to redress the worst excesses of the Salmon principles which have reached their nadir in the Saville Inquiry. The time has clearly come to reformulate the Salmon principles".705"We do need to introduce these principles there within reason. and where it is appropriate"."Only Lord Howe, sharply critical of the Scott inquiry argued for retention of the full Salmon principles"."The Inquiries Bill places the chairman under an obligation to have regard to costs in his running of the inquiry so the chairman must consider cost implications of permitting legal involvement"."To mitigate concerns that rules will lead to more claims for representation there could be a presumption against legal representation unless the chairman is satisfied certain circumstances apply".704"Lord Cullen allowed people to be parties 'if they were able to show an interest, in some aspect of the subject matter of the inquiry which as a matter of fairness required protection by such [legal] representation"."as a matter of fairness".Official Report,"to raise, as I fear the noble Lord's amendment does, an almost irrebuttable presumption that if anyone may have cause to apprehend the possibility of criticism and may reasonably wish to be legally represented, he is allowed to do so, is to perpetuate the present system which the public see as an abuse and a gross waste of money".—[Official Report,Official Report,"So I am entirely sympathetic with the object of the amendment".—[Official Report,"fairness requires anyone who is in serious risk of pains and penalties to be legally represented. I also agree that there are serious cases where the right to cross-examination should be allowed … I thought that what happened in the Scott inquiry was not fair".Official Report,"I do not think that the chairman should be invited to start with any presumption for or against the giving of legal representation. It depends on the circumstances of each case".—[Official Report,"So I cannot say that I disagree with what the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe, said. He undoubtedly has a very strong point to make. But one has to look at these issues with proportionality in mind"."My view is that the Salmon report goes too far for modern times".703"Most witnesses who had played leading roles in the story had legal representation. We made it plain that they were welcome to have their lawyers sitting beside them but that lawyers were expected to play a backseat role at the hearing. A short opening statement and a little re-examination was acceptable, but in essence, the proceedings were to be inquisitorial not adversarial"."deserve further urgent investigation … it will be very desirable to have legal representatives present to whom we can turn for assistance".702"In many cases the assistance of lawyers in identifying and preparing the evidence will be essential … I would hope that those Departments or other bodies which played a major part in the story will instruct Counsel to attend the hearing, or at least those parts of the hearing with which they are particularly concerned, in order to assist with the presentation of evidence, or any other way that may appear desirable".Lord Howe of Aberavon
"The spirit of liberty is the spirit which acknowledges that it may not always be right.": My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for intervening because that is the point that I have encapsulated in my latest amendment. It is a phrase drawn from the noble and learned Lord, Lord Cullen. I have no special attachment to the precise nuances of the burden of proof—I share everyone's lack of enthusiasm for presumptions either way. But I do think that attention should be directed to this."The spirit of liberty is the spirit which acknowledges that it may not always be right."Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, I am most grateful for my noble friend the Minister's response. I understand more since I have had consultations with her and heard her speech this evening. The Government have considered these matters of interference with inquiry proceedings most carefully. I am particularly grateful to her for indicating that Clause 32(2) can properly be interpreted as covering certain forms of interference, such as television and press interviews with potential witnesses. I was and am concerned about that.Lord Borrie
730"distorting or otherwise altering any evidence",729(c) does any other thing which would, if the inquiry had been a court of law having power to commit for contempt, have been contempt of that court,"Page 17, line 18, at end insert "or moved Amendment No. 98:
730"distorting or otherwise altering any evidence",729(c) does any other thing which would, if the inquiry had been a court of law having power to commit for contempt, have been contempt of that court,"Page 17, line 18, at end insert "orLord Borrie
: My Lords, I do not agree with the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, in his assessment of the value of stigma. I think it is wholly had. However, I support him in the change of concept, which is a possible way forward. A simpler way forward is to accept the amendment because the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, has compromised and is asking for only a small part of what we asked for in Committee. This is a wholly reasonable amendment because depression is the one disability that is made worse by discrimination. That in itself should encourage the Government to be sympathetic. I do not understand their stand because it is illogical. The Bill would be anomalous if they refuse this amendment. I hope that my noble friend will be able to accept it.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, will that review include discussions with the DRC, Macmillan and other such organisations?Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, I hope that my noble friend Lady Hollis will look favourably on this, since she was unfortunately unable to do so in Committee. I have a few points to make. First, again I do not agree with the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, about stigma not being attached to cancer, at least not as much as it used to be in the olden days. This is a purely subjective point of view, and either of us can be right. In my experience, people still are as terrified of cancer, and it is still as much of a bombshell of a word that stops all thought, all arguments, and raises fear and apprehension among anyone who is told. This is very unfortunate.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, can he help me with a question that is troubling me a little? Would it be possible in the procedural rules to determine that lawyers should not be allowed in these inquiries at all as a matter of general provision?Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, forgive me, rodent ulcers are cancer; benign tumours are not cancer.Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, perhaps I may raise a point on the definition she quoted from the disability task force. Benign tumours are by definition not cancer.Lord Walton of Detchant
686: My Lords, at first sight, new sub-paragraph (2) looks entirely reasonable, because it is perfectly clear that certain people with minor forms of skin cancer cannot be regarded as being disabled, in the normal course of events and in everyday parlance. Where exactly would the Government draw the line? What kind of prescription would they introduce? There are cancers, such as the basal cell carcinoma of the skin often referred to as a rodent ulcer, which are not life-threatening and do not metastasise. However, in my professional career, I have seen such rodent ulcers—neglected because the patients did not seek advice—eroding the skull and tissues to such an extent as to constitute a very significant disability.686Lord Walton of Detchant
: The motivation underlying the amendment is unexceptionable. There are many issues arising out of the speech of my noble friend Lord Alton which make the amendment worth serious consideration. I agree wholly with his point about withdrawing food, fluid and nutrition from a sentient patient; under no circumstance would I contemplate it. As your Lordships' House has considered previously, and as the High Court and the Court of Appeal have considered, the issue that arises in relation to patients in a permanent vegetative state is totally different.Lord Walton of Detchant
697: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for accepting government Amendment No. 39, which accepts the principle, to which we have agreed, that any notice ending an inquiry early should be laid before Parliament.697Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;( ) Where the Minister gives a notice under subsection (1)(b) he must—
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;"( ) Before exercising his power under subsection (1)(b) the Minister must consult the chairman.Page 6, line 7, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 39:
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;( ) Where the Minister gives a notice under subsection (1)(b) he must—
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable. before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for bringing the inquiry to an end;"( ) Before exercising his power under subsection (1)(b) the Minister must consult the chairman.Page 6, line 7, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
698: My Lords, I am probably breaking all the procedural rules by rising
698Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
"( ) Before exercising that power the Minister must consult the chairman."Page 5, line 29, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 35:
"( ) Before exercising that power the Minister must consult the chairman."Page 5, line 29, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;"( ) Where the Minister gives a notice under subsection (1) he must—
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;Page 5, line 32, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 36:
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;"( ) Where the Minister gives a notice under subsection (1) he must—
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;
(b) lay a copy of the notice, as soon as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly."(a) set out in the notice his reasons for suspending the inquiry;Page 5, line 32, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
695: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, for agreeing that government Amendment No. 36 answers his concerns. We should be most grateful if noble
695Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
On Question, Motion agreed to.(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Clauses 39 to 45.—(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clauses 37 and 38,Schedule 5,
On Question, Motion agreed to.(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Clauses 39 to 45.—(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clauses 37 and 38,Schedule 5,665Clauses 35 and 36,Schedule 4,Clauses 28 to 34,Schedule 3,Clauses 11 to 27,Schedule 2,Clauses 2 to 10,Schedule 1,Clause 1,
Clauses 35 and 36,Schedule 4,Clauses 28 to 34,Schedule 3,Clauses 11 to 27,Schedule 2,Clauses 2 to 10,Schedule 1,Clause 1,: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.On Question, Motion agreed to.(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Clauses 39 to 45.—(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clauses 37 and 38,Schedule 5,
On Question, Motion agreed to.(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Clauses 39 to 45.—(Lord Evans of Temple Gulling.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clauses 37 and 38,Schedule 5,665Clauses 35 and 36,Schedule 4,Clauses 28 to 34,Schedule 3,Clauses 11 to 27,Schedule 2,Clauses 2 to 10,Schedule 1,Clause 1,
Clauses 35 and 36,Schedule 4,Clauses 28 to 34,Schedule 3,Clauses 11 to 27,Schedule 2,Clauses 2 to 10,Schedule 1,Clause 1,Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, moved by the previous two speeches, I want briefly to declare an interest—I hope that it is not a stigma. I have had rodent ulcers. I have been over to St Thomas' a couple of times and am assured that there is no further problem; indeed, my father had them for some time. That does not feel like a disability. I certainly do not feel in any way discriminated against or likely to be so.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for giving way. She is describing the difference between what we might describe as externally caused depressions and those that are internal—those which, undoubtedly in my view, spring from some form of disorder within one, not from the circumstances in which one finds oneself. I can agree very largely with her on that distinction. I am not quite sure that I would go all the way with her from there, but she certainly makes a valid distinction.Lord Tebbit
678"framed by reference to consequences for a person of his having it"—Page 42, line 33, leave out subsection (3). moved Amendment No. 40:
678"framed by reference to consequences for a person of his having it"—Page 42, line 33, leave out subsection (3).Lord Tebbit
682: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for her reply. I sometimes wonder how she manages to maintain her place as a Minister in this Government. She is so reasonable and so competent that she shines like a
682Lord Tebbit
"Beware the adjective 'social' for wherever it is used it will surely reverse or negate the meaning of the word to which it is applied".: My Lords, we gave this issue a great deal of thought in the Joint Committee, under the chairmanship of the noble Lord, Lord Carter, and we all agreed that the stigma which is attached to mental illness is still there. I am not against stigma in all circumstances—it can be a very valuable part of the way we live—but it is extremely unfair in the way that it affects people who have suffered mental illness."Beware the adjective 'social' for wherever it is used it will surely reverse or negate the meaning of the word to which it is applied".Lord Tebbit
: I must inform the Committee that the number of noble Lords voting "Not-content" in the second Division this afternoon was 163, not 162, as announced.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Elton)
Official Report,"The Government's provision in the Bill is a prescription for confusion … I cannot believe that the great British public will be able to identify clearly which is which".—[Official Report,684Official Report,"I am trying to isolate the cancers—perhaps it is unfortunate that we call them 'cancers' rather than anything else".—[Official Report,in situin situ683Page 42, leave out lines 37 to 39. moved Amendment No. 41:
Official Report,"The Government's provision in the Bill is a prescription for confusion … I cannot believe that the great British public will be able to identify clearly which is which".—[Official Report,684Official Report,"I am trying to isolate the cancers—perhaps it is unfortunate that we call them 'cancers' rather than anything else".—[Official Report,in situin situ683Page 42, leave out lines 37 to 39.Lord Skelmersdale
"surely the most significant cause of disability is old age".679: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Tebbit, has produced a very interesting
"surely the most significant cause of disability is old age".679Lord Skelmersdale
677: My Lords, I was interested in that answer. The Minister feels that guidance will continue to be good enough and I well understand that nobody wants to delay the Bill. Indeed, I do not want to delay it myself—and I am not alone. If the Government feel that any amendments passed in your Lordships' House should be taken out of the Bill or amended in another place, they can do so. To a very great extent, the timing is in their hands.
677Lord Skelmersdale
Taylor v Sunterra Europe Ltd.: My Lords, I am in a slight quandary. The basis of the amendment has been supported all around the House with the exception of the Minister. I am particularly grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Murphy, who called this a "modest amendment seeking to correct a wrong". And it is a wrong.Taylor v Sunterra Europe Ltd.Lord Skelmersdale
"Even if the tenant has an impairment, that is only material in determining whether he or she is disabled, so far as it has an adverse effect on his or her ability to carry out 'normal day to day activities'".Manchester City Council v Sharon RomanoEnvironment Agency v Mr Sevens,675"( ) In paragraph 4(1) before sub-paragraph (a), leave out the words from "to" to the end and insert "have a substantial adverse effect on the ability of the person concerned to carry out day to day activities only if it also affects one or more of the following capacities—"."Page 42, line 32, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 39:
"Even if the tenant has an impairment, that is only material in determining whether he or she is disabled, so far as it has an adverse effect on his or her ability to carry out 'normal day to day activities'".Manchester City Council v Sharon RomanoEnvironment Agency v Mr Sevens,675"( ) In paragraph 4(1) before sub-paragraph (a), leave out the words from "to" to the end and insert "have a substantial adverse effect on the ability of the person concerned to carry out day to day activities only if it also affects one or more of the following capacities—"."Page 42, line 32, at end insert—Lord Skelmersdale
Pepper v HartPepper v Hurt.: My Lords, I stand corrected. Benign tumours are not cancer. That is exactly the problem because the clause talks about cancer. One does not know what is covered and what is not. But all this will be explored during the consultation.Pepper v HartPepper v Hurt.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I hope I was in the process of explaining that I do not doubt the good faith of the Government in this area, but I have quite natural suspicions of some future government. That is not unusual, especially when one is speaking from the Official Opposition Front Bench. I have no doubt that the noble Baroness in her turn did so some years ago.Lord Skelmersdale
691: My Lords, I am extremely grateful to all noble Lords who have supported me on this amendment. It has been a long-running saga and, yes, I do accept that the Government have moved a long way in my direction. I am very pleased that consultation is going on and will continue to go on until the Government produce the list and lay the orders.691Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, I am sure her commitment to consultation the first time round is widely accepted. Will she put such a provision in the Bill, so that we can be sure that in future consultation takes place when, as is inevitable, there is a need to alter the list from time to time?Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has a very good record in accepting the recommendations of the committee. I am delighted that she has done so on this occasion.Lord Skelmersdale
"Where an impairment ceases to have a substantial adverse effect on a person's ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities, it is to be treated as continuing to have that effect if that effect is likely to recur".(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;
(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;"(1) The effect of an impairment is a long-term effect if—
(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;
(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;"( ) Without prejudice to the operation of sub-paragraph (2), the mental impairment consisting of or resulting from depression that has ceased to have a substantial adverse effect on a person's ability to carry out normal day to day activities shall always be treated as if that effect is likely to recur if the person has had within the last 5 years a previous episode of such impairment which had a substantial adverse effect on the person's ability to carry out normal day to day activities for a period of 6 months or more."""( ) In paragraph 2, after sub-paragraph (2) there is inserted—Page 42, line 32, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 38:
"Where an impairment ceases to have a substantial adverse effect on a person's ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities, it is to be treated as continuing to have that effect if that effect is likely to recur".(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;
(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;"(1) The effect of an impairment is a long-term effect if—
(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;
(c)it is likely to last for the rest of the life of the person affected".666(b) the period for which it lasts is likely to be at least 12 months; or(a) it has lasted at least 12 months;"( ) Without prejudice to the operation of sub-paragraph (2), the mental impairment consisting of or resulting from depression that has ceased to have a substantial adverse effect on a person's ability to carry out normal day to day activities shall always be treated as if that effect is likely to recur if the person has had within the last 5 years a previous episode of such impairment which had a substantial adverse effect on the person's ability to carry out normal day to day activities for a period of 6 months or more."""( ) In paragraph 2, after sub-paragraph (2) there is inserted—Page 42, line 32, at end insert—Lord Skelmersdale
: Surely not.Lord Garel-Jones
: I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
"( ) The Minister shall lay a notice under subsection (1) before each House of Parliament, together with a statement of his reasons for suspending the inquiry."Page 5, line 27, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 33:
"( ) The Minister shall lay a notice under subsection (1) before each House of Parliament, together with a statement of his reasons for suspending the inquiry."Page 5, line 27, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
"The Minister shall lay a copy of the notice before each House of Parliament, together with a statement of his reasons for terminating the inquiry".: My Lords, Amendment No. 40 in this group is tabled in my name and that of my noble friend. It proposes simply that,
"The Minister shall lay a copy of the notice before each House of Parliament, together with a statement of his reasons for terminating the inquiry".Lord Goodhart
Page 24, line 43, leave out "5" and insert "10" moved Amendment No. 181:
Page 24, line 43, leave out "5" and insert "10"Lord Goodhart
[The judges of the Court of Protection]:: I am grateful to the Minister for explaining the cause of the distinction, which puzzled me when I first saw it. I now understand the reasoning behind this. I am glad that there has been an opportunity for research and I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.[The judges of the Court of Protection]:Lord Goodhart
750Page 25, line 17, leave out "Lord Chancellor" and insert "Lord Chief Justice" moved Amendment No. 182:
750Page 25, line 17, leave out "Lord Chancellor" and insert "Lord Chief Justice"Lord Goodhart
(5) Subsection (4) of section 37 shall not apply to an award of amounts in respect of legal representation which is reasonably required for the representation of family members of persons whose deaths are a subject of the inquiry."(4) Subsection (1) of section 8 shall have effect as if the words following "party" had been omitted.(3) It is the duty of the chairman to arrange for reports of the inquiry to be published.(2) No restriction notice may be given by a Minister.(1) Where an inquiry involves investigation into loss of life, this Act shall apply with the following modifications.
(5) Subsection (4) of section 37 shall not apply to an award of amounts in respect of legal representation which is reasonably required for the representation of family members of persons whose deaths are a subject of the inquiry."(4) Subsection (1) of section 8 shall have effect as if the words following "party" had been omitted.(3) It is the duty of the chairman to arrange for reports of the inquiry to be published.(2) No restriction notice may be given by a Minister.(1) Where an inquiry involves investigation into loss of life, this Act shall apply with the following modifications."INQUIRIES INTO LOSS OF LIFEAfter Clause 23, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 90:
(5) Subsection (4) of section 37 shall not apply to an award of amounts in respect of legal representation which is reasonably required for the representation of family members of persons whose deaths are a subject of the inquiry."(4) Subsection (1) of section 8 shall have effect as if the words following "party" had been omitted.(3) It is the duty of the chairman to arrange for reports of the inquiry to be published.(2) No restriction notice may be given by a Minister.(1) Where an inquiry involves investigation into loss of life, this Act shall apply with the following modifications.
(5) Subsection (4) of section 37 shall not apply to an award of amounts in respect of legal representation which is reasonably required for the representation of family members of persons whose deaths are a subject of the inquiry."(4) Subsection (1) of section 8 shall have effect as if the words following "party" had been omitted.(3) It is the duty of the chairman to arrange for reports of the inquiry to be published.(2) No restriction notice may be given by a Minister.(1) Where an inquiry involves investigation into loss of life, this Act shall apply with the following modifications."INQUIRIES INTO LOSS OF LIFEAfter Clause 23, insert the following new clause—Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I have a copy of the letter dated 6 February which I think is the one to which the Minister is referring. It gives me a good deal of reassurance as to what is necessary. The matter has been of particular concern in Northern Ireland where there are issues regarding inquiries into deaths. Such inquiries should be conducted in a way that satisfies the criteria of Article 2. I feel considerably reassured, but if I have further concerns I shall raise them before Third Reading. In the meantime, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, these amendments seem to me to be an improvement to the Bill. I am happy to welcome them.Lord Goodhart
721"cannot reasonably be expected to comply with such a notice".( ) the burden of producing any document or thing which he is required to produce by the notice would be disproportionate to the assistance likely to he given to the inquiry by their production,""( ) his evidence, or the production of any documents or things which he is required to produce by the notice, would not give any material assistance to the inquiry, orPage 9, line 32, leave out from "section," to end of line 33 and insert— moved Amendment No. 72:
721"cannot reasonably be expected to comply with such a notice".( ) the burden of producing any document or thing which he is required to produce by the notice would be disproportionate to the assistance likely to he given to the inquiry by their production,""( ) his evidence, or the production of any documents or things which he is required to produce by the notice, would not give any material assistance to the inquiry, orPage 9, line 32, leave out from "section," to end of line 33 and insert—Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I am very grateful to the Minister for that reply. I am certainly very happy to accept her explanation of the intention of the government amendment. Therefore, I am happy to beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
Page 10, line 15, leave out from "in" to end of line 17 and insert "avoiding a risk of damage to the economy outweighs the public interest in the information being revealed" moved Amendment No. 75:
Page 10, line 15, leave out from "in" to end of line 17 and insert "avoiding a risk of damage to the economy outweighs the public interest in the information being revealed"Lord Goodhart
724"'Revealed' means revealed to anyone who is not a member of the inquiry panel"."The panel must not permit or require the information to be revealed, or cause it to be revealed, unless satisfied that the public interest in the information being revealed outweighs the public interest in avoiding the risk of damage to the economy".: My Lords, I am not entirely satisfied with the response. Clause 21 states:
724"'Revealed' means revealed to anyone who is not a member of the inquiry panel"."The panel must not permit or require the information to be revealed, or cause it to be revealed, unless satisfied that the public interest in the information being revealed outweighs the public interest in avoiding the risk of damage to the economy".Lord Goodhart
Page 8, line 40, leave out subsection (5). moved Amendment No. 65:
Page 8, line 40, leave out subsection (5).Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, as I understand it, therefore, the position is that a restriction order, if it continued after the end of the inquiry, would engage, or potentially engage, Article 10. I refer to the Minister's answer to the inquiry of my noble friend Lord Lester. The retention of at any rate part of subsection (5) would not prevent information being disclosed where there was no justification under Article 10 for keeping it secret. While I am a little concerned that that is not in the Bill as I think it may give people a misleading impression of the position, nevertheless I am prepared to accept that. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
712: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for raising the point about Article 10, which I fully support. I wait with interest to hear what the Minister says.712Lord Goodhart
: That does indeed provide the expected answer to the question raised by the amendment. It is as I expected and I am happy to beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Goodhart
( ) Court of Protection Rules are to be made by a committee known as the Court of Protection Rules Committee.""( ) There are to be rules of court (to be called "Court of Protection Rules") governing the practice and procedure to be followed in the Court of Protection.Page 27, line 31, leave out subsection (1) and insert— moved Amendment No. 187:
( ) Court of Protection Rules are to be made by a committee known as the Court of Protection Rules Committee.""( ) There are to be rules of court (to be called "Court of Protection Rules") governing the practice and procedure to be followed in the Court of Protection.Page 27, line 31, leave out subsection (1) and insert—Lord Goodhart
753: I naturally have some regret that the Minister is unable to accept what I believed to be a
753Lord Goodhart
770: My Lords, the story that the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, just told us about the problem that Lord Iliffe had relating to Miss Laurence's money not being looked after by the PGO raises serious questions. Indeed, the only doubt is whether the noble Lord's proposed amendment goes far enough. The gross incompetence of the PGO as shown in the ombudsman's report is quite extraordinary. Indeed, it suggests that things have gone so far that disciplinary proceedings against members of the staff for the complete failure to carry out their duties would have been called for.770Lord Goodhart
another public authority functions for enabling the Convention to be given effect in England and Wales".781"Any statutory instrument containing rules, regulations or orders made by the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State under this Act, other than regulations under section 39 or an order under section 64 … is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament".Page 34, line 12, at beginning insert "An Order in Council under paragraph 32 of Schedule 3 and" moved Amendment No. 200:
another public authority functions for enabling the Convention to be given effect in England and Wales".781"Any statutory instrument containing rules, regulations or orders made by the Lord Chancellor or the Secretary of State under this Act, other than regulations under section 39 or an order under section 64 … is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament".Page 34, line 12, at beginning insert "An Order in Council under paragraph 32 of Schedule 3 and"Lord Goodhart
So far as the power in (a) is concerned, we consider the fact that the provision must be to give further effect to the Convention to he a sufficient limitation to justify the negative procedure. But the power in (b) is not restrained in a similar way, nor is there a satisfactory explanation of this power in the memorandum … We suggest therefore that the house may wish to invite the Government to explain more fully the purposes for which the apparently wide power in paragraph 33(2)(b) is needed: and we recommend that, in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, the affirmative procedure should apply"."In addition, paragraph 33(1) enables the Lord Chancellor by regulations to make provision: (a) giving further effect to the Convention; or (b) otherwise about the private international law of England and Wales in relation to the protection of adults. By paragraph 33(2)(b) the regulations may amend Schedule 3 to the bill. So this is a Henry VIII power, albeit a very limited one.782"Schedule 3 gives effect in England and Wales to the Convention on the International Protection of Adults … There are delegated powers at paragraphs 32 and 33 of the Schedule, each subject to negative procedure".: If it is convenient, perhaps I may deal with Amendments Nos. 201 to 203. Amendment No. 201 probably got there in error, so it can be disregarded. Amendment Nos. 202 and 203 deal with a question that was raised by the Delegated Powers Committee. As a former member of that committee I of course always support, in principle, its recommendations.So far as the power in (a) is concerned, we consider the fact that the provision must be to give further effect to the Convention to he a sufficient limitation to justify the negative procedure. But the power in (b) is not restrained in a similar way, nor is there a satisfactory explanation of this power in the memorandum … We suggest therefore that the house may wish to invite the Government to explain more fully the purposes for which the apparently wide power in paragraph 33(2)(b) is needed: and we recommend that, in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, the affirmative procedure should apply"."In addition, paragraph 33(1) enables the Lord Chancellor by regulations to make provision: (a) giving further effect to the Convention; or (b) otherwise about the private international law of England and Wales in relation to the protection of adults. By paragraph 33(2)(b) the regulations may amend Schedule 3 to the bill. So this is a Henry VIII power, albeit a very limited one.782"Schedule 3 gives effect in England and Wales to the Convention on the International Protection of Adults … There are delegated powers at paragraphs 32 and 33 of the Schedule, each subject to negative procedure".Lord Goodhart
783: I am grateful to the noble Baroness. In the circumstances, I am happy to withdraw the amendment.
783Lord Goodhart
: I am entirely sympathetic to the intention behind the amendment. The Public Guardian should, of course, be accountable to Parliament and to the public for the exercise of his functions, and it is right that we should know how well he is carrying them out.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
764: It is very important. Master Lush has been to talk to us about it. We are thinking carefully about how we deal with the issues.
764Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: I am grateful to the noble Lord for his comments about my noble and learned friend. To borrow a word from the noble Lord's dictionary, I shall be "telegraphic" in my response.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: We considered very carefully how best to make rules for the Court of Protection. As the noble Lord, Lord Good hart, has indicated, rule committees have been an effective way of making rules for the civil, criminal and family jurisdictions. They are useful—if not essential—when the rules need to cover a range of courts and will affect a wide range of people in slightly different contexts so that it is necessary to seek a representative view.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
755: I am grateful for the opportunity to talk about Clause 52 and the making of fees orders for the Court of Protection.755Baroness Ashton of Upholland
763: I am very grateful to my noble friend, although I think that things go upwards rather than downwards from me. My noble friend raised two points. First, do those worried about what is happening to somebody feel protected if they decide to whistle-blow? Secondly, to whom do they whistle-blow? I have already had the privilege of discussing the matter with my noble friend and I have committed to looking at those two issues.763Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: We touched on the Leslie Burke case at the beginning of the debate. I must say again that the purpose of the Bill is to empower and protect; it is never about denying people the care that they need, whether it be basic care or the treatment that would help to support them.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
759758: All the amendments look to add to the functions of the Public Guardian set out in Clause 56. They are all concerned with putting additional safeguards in place to protect against abuse, particularly of lasting powers of attorney. I sympathise with what Members of the Committee seek to achieve. It is because of that concern that we have put a number of safeguards in the Bill, including the requirement to register lasting powers of attorney before they can be used, the certificate stating that the person has capacity and that they are free from fraud or undue pressure, and the provision for the notification of named people.759758Baroness Ashton of Upholland
762761: I am grateful to the noble Baroness for speaking to Amendment No. 195. I shall address the concerns she has raised.762761Baroness Ashton of Upholland
713: My Lords. I say to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe, that if the spirit of liberty is as he says I am indeed a free woman.713Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord, as I did in Committee, that the starting point for inquiries must be full public access. What I thought to do with Amendment No. 52, which has been accepted, was to draw out the parts of Clause 17 on public access and put them in a separate clause beforehand to make it even clearer that public access is the starting point. I hoped that in doing that I had kept my promise about making the matter even clearer. Perhaps I may ask the noble Lord to reflect on that fact and tell me if he feels that I have failed. But it was partly to keep the promise to him that I have done what I did and inserted the new clause after Clause 16, in Amendment No. 52. I hope that he will feel able to withdraw his amendment on that basis.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
717"the extent to which any restriction on attendance, disclosure or publication might inhibit the allaying of public concern".716: My Lords, I am desperately sorry that my letter to the noble Lord did
717"the extent to which any restriction on attendance, disclosure or publication might inhibit the allaying of public concern".716Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 8, line 41, after "documents" insert "("disclosure restrictions")" moved Amendment No. 66:
Page 8, line 41, after "documents" insert "("disclosure restrictions")"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"( ) After the end of the inquiry, disclosure restrictions do not apply to a public authority, or a Scottish public authority, in relation to information held by the authority otherwise than as a result of the breach of any such restrictions."Page 9, line 1, leave out subsection (6) and insert— moved Amendment No. 67:
"( ) After the end of the inquiry, disclosure restrictions do not apply to a public authority, or a Scottish public authority, in relation to information held by the authority otherwise than as a result of the breach of any such restrictions."Page 9, line 1, leave out subsection (6) and insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
719: My Lords, I fully agree with the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, that restriction
719Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 8, line 15, leave out subsections (6) and (7). moved Amendment No. 62:
Page 8, line 15, leave out subsections (6) and (7).Baroness Ashton of Upholland
723: My Lords, I agree that when a person making the assessment of public interest is fully informed, information should be released when public interests are equal, which is the issue raised by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, around the Freedom of Information Act.723Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"( ) Subsection (4)(b) does not affect any obligation of the Minister, or any other public authority or Scottish public authority, that may arise under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36) or the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13)."Page 11, line 32, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 86:
"( ) Subsection (4)(b) does not affect any obligation of the Minister, or any other public authority or Scottish public authority, that may arise under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36) or the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13)."Page 11, line 32, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Whatever is required to be published under section 23 must be laid by the Minister, either at the time of publication or as soon afterwards as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly.""LAYING OF REPORTS BEFORE PARLIAMENT OR ASSEMBLYAfter Clause 23, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 89:
Whatever is required to be published under section 23 must be laid by the Minister, either at the time of publication or as soon afterwards as is reasonably practicable, before the relevant Parliament or Assembly.""LAYING OF REPORTS BEFORE PARLIAMENT OR ASSEMBLYAfter Clause 23, insert the following new clause—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
725: My Lords, Clause 23 is designed to reflect what have been differing practices in past inquiries. Generally, an inquiry submits its report to the Minister, and the Minister then publishes the report. That has certainly been the practice for many past inquiries. The clause allows for the chairman to publish instead, so that can be done in cases where it is more appropriate.725Baroness Ashton of Upholland
722Page 9, line 33, leave out "he cannot reasonably be expected" and insert "it is not reasonable in all the circumstances to require him" moved Amendment No. 73:
722Page 9, line 33, leave out "he cannot reasonably be expected" and insert "it is not reasonable in all the circumstances to require him"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I agree completely with the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, that it is important to ensure that the chairman does not use the powers of compulsion in relation to information that is not necessary, which could lead to undue demands on individuals.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(b) vary it so as to remove or relax any of the restrictions.""(a) revoke a restriction order or restriction notice containing disclosure restrictions that are still in force, orPage 9, line 8, leave out from "suitable" to end of line 9 and insert— moved Amendment No. 70:
(b) vary it so as to remove or relax any of the restrictions.""(a) revoke a restriction order or restriction notice containing disclosure restrictions that are still in force, orPage 9, line 8, leave out from "suitable" to end of line 9 and insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 9, line 22, after "inquiry" insert "panel" moved Amendment No. 71:
Page 9, line 22, after "inquiry" insert "panel"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 18, line 30, leave out "is acting outside its" and insert "panel is acting outside the inquiry's" moved Amendment No. 102:
Page 18, line 30, leave out "is acting outside its" and insert "panel is acting outside the inquiry's"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 19, line 17, at end insert "and notified by him to the chairman"Page 19, line 15, leave out from "section" to "is" in line 16.Page 19, line 4, after "incurred" insert ", or to be incurred" moved Amendments Nos. 104 to 106:
Page 19, line 17, at end insert "and notified by him to the chairman"Page 19, line 15, leave out from "section" to "is" in line 16.Page 19, line 4, after "incurred" insert ", or to be incurred"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"(aa) the return or keeping, after the end of an inquiry, of documents given to or created by the inquiry;"Page 19. line 21, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 107:
"(aa) the return or keeping, after the end of an inquiry, of documents given to or created by the inquiry;"Page 19. line 21, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
""Scottish public authority" has the same meaning as in the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13);"Page 20, line 40, at end insert—(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;
(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;""the relevant Parliament or Assembly" means whichever of the following is or are applicable—Page 20, line 33, at end insert—
(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;
(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;""the relevant Parliament or Assembly" means whichever of the following is or are applicable—""public authority" has the same meaning as in the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36);"Page 20. line 33, at end insert— moved Amendments Nos. 108 to 110:
""Scottish public authority" has the same meaning as in the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (asp 13);"Page 20, line 40, at end insert—(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;
(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;""the relevant Parliament or Assembly" means whichever of the following is or are applicable—Page 20, line 33, at end insert—
(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;
(e) in the case of an inquiry for which a Northern Ireland Minister is responsible, the Northern Ireland Assembly:"(d) in the case of an inquiry for which the National Assembly for Wales is responsible, that Assembly;(c) in the case of an inquiry for which the Scottish Ministers are responsible, the Scottish Parliament;(b) in the case of an inquiry for which any other United Kingdom Minister is responsible, or one for which the Secretary of State exercising functions by virtue of section 42(2) is responsible, the House of Parliament of which that minister is a member;(a) in the case of an inquiry for which the Treasury is responsible, the House of Commons;""the relevant Parliament or Assembly" means whichever of the following is or are applicable—""public authority" has the same meaning as in the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36);"Page 20. line 33, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
734Page 27, line 10, leave out paragraph 14. moved Amendment No. 113:
734Page 27, line 10, leave out paragraph 14.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
732Page 18, line 25, leave out "reasonably" moved Amendment No. 100:
732Page 18, line 25, leave out "reasonably"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Lord, who will remember well the confusion that I got myself into at the end of Grand Committee. I will attempt to do precisely what the noble Lord wants.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 13, line 4, leave out from "reference" to end of line and insert "of the inquiry must not require it" moved Amendment No. 91:
Page 13, line 4, leave out from "reference" to end of line and insert "of the inquiry must not require it"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 13, line 21, leave out from "reference" to end of line and insert "of the inquiry must not require it" moved Amendment No. 92:
Page 13, line 21, leave out from "reference" to end of line and insert "of the inquiry must not require it"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 13, line 38, leave out from "reference" to end of line 39 and insert "of the inquiry must not require it" moved Amendment No. 93:
Page 13, line 38, leave out from "reference" to end of line 39 and insert "of the inquiry must not require it"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 15, line 24, at end insert ", or section 31," moved Amendment No. 94:
Page 15, line 24, at end insert ", or section 31,"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 16, line 39, after "inquiry" insert "panel"Page 16, line 32, after "inquiry" insert "panel"Page 16, line 30, after "inquiry" insert "panel" moved Amendments Nos. 95 to 97:
Page 16, line 39, after "inquiry" insert "panel"Page 16, line 32, after "inquiry" insert "panel"Page 16, line 30, after "inquiry" insert "panel"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
727: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord. He will have seen me scrabbling around on the Front Bench, which was to find a copy of my noble and learned friend's letter to Jean Corston, the chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. I hope that a copy found its way to the noble Lord today. He may want to discuss issues regarding that letter with me before Third Reading, which I shall be happy to pick up. However, it has only just arrived with me too, so I am not as up to speed with it as I would like. I shall try to deal with the amendment and see whether that will help him as well.727Baroness Ashton of Upholland
731: My Lords, I am very grateful to my noble friend for tabling these amendments and for the time that he has given me and my officials in talking through the issues. This is an issue that we gave significant consideration to when preparing the Bill. I understand why my noble friend has suggested it, but I do not believe that the changes are appropriate.731Baroness Ashton of Upholland
déjá vu: I am neither a lawyer nor a mental health expert. The noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, will forgive me if I have a sense of déjá vuBaroness Ashton of Upholland
749: This is an interesting question, and I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, because I have had to go and find the answer to it.749Baroness Ashton of Upholland
741740Daily Mail: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Alton, for giving me the opportunity to address briefly the 741740Daily MailBaroness Ashton of upholland
747746: I am afraid that I did not see the programme—I was probably here. I recognise the issue that the noble Baroness has raised. I cannot speak for the Department of Health, but the whole purpose behind the Bill is to empower and protect some of the most vulnerable people in our society. As we continue in Committee and go on to further stages, I hope that that will become more apparent, particularly as the noble Baroness has a great interest in these issues. That is what these debates are for.747746Baroness Ashton of Upholland
742: The issue about having a partial view is twofold. The first question is whether one collects information that gives a complete picture because one has all the information. The aspect that I was referring to was the collection of information without the benefit of considering the individual's best interests and the decisions that have been made in that context.742Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
699"( ) Before exercising that power the Minister must consult the chairman."Page 6, line 22, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 42:
699"( ) Before exercising that power the Minister must consult the chairman."Page 6, line 22, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, on behalf of my noble and learned friend Lord Falconer of Thoroton I beg to move that the Bill be now further considered on Report.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
694: My Lords, I am again grateful to the noble Lord for explaining the issue that concerns him. I agree that it is very unlikely that a Minister would remove a panel member against the wishes of the chairman, because the chairman has the ultimate, extremely powerful option of going public with any objections to that.694Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or(7) The Minister must consult the chairman before—
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or"(6) The Minister may at any time after setting out the terms of reference under this section amend them if he considers that the public interest so requires.Page 6, line 30, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 43:
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or(7) The Minister must consult the chairman before—
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or
(b) amending the terms of reference under subsection (6)."(a) setting out terms of reference that are different from those of the original inquiry, or"(6) The Minister may at any time after setting out the terms of reference under this section amend them if he considers that the public interest so requires.Page 6, line 30, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, or
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, or"(8) Section (Minister's duty to inform Parliament or Assembly) applies, with any necessary modifications, in relation to—
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, or
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, orPage 6, line 30, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 44:
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, or
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, or"(8) Section (Minister's duty to inform Parliament or Assembly) applies, with any necessary modifications, in relation to—
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, or
(b) amending an inquiry's terms of reference under subsection (5),(a) converting an inquiry under this section, orPage 6, line 30, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 6, line 39, at end insert", and for the purposes of section 11(5) is treated as made by the Minister on the date of conversion" moved Amendment No. 46:
Page 6, line 39, at end insert", and for the purposes of section 11(5) is treated as made by the Minister on the date of conversion"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 6, line 40, leave out subsections (3) to (5). moved Amendment No. 47:
Page 6, line 40, leave out subsections (3) to (5).Baroness Ashton of Upholland
708: My Lords, I am grateful for the contributions that have been made. I intend to be extremely brief. I am sorry that my beguiling charm completely failed to work on the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe, but I am very grateful to him for returning to what I know is a very important issue to him. I understand that in his revised amendment he is seeking to achieve a balance between fairness and economy. The noble Lord, Lord Lester, is right in everything he said, especially about the inquiry's common-law duty.708Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Hansard: My Lords, I put my name to the amendment and would like to support it strongly. I very much back up what was said by the noble Lord, Lord Carter. I hope that the Minister will have time to consult. If not—at the very least—I hope that she will give a very firm assurance in HansardBaroness Darcy de Knayth
: Yes, I give the noble Lord that assurance and my noble friend and the chief executive of the PGO would be delighted to meet him to discuss those concerns. One thing that I did not say is that the Bill introduces a new provision, so that visitors will be able to visit donees and deputies, not just the client, as is the case at present. It will be possible to use that as a way to engage with those responsible for making decisions. That is a definite step forward, but we would be very pleased to discuss those issues, and any other concerns of the noble Lord.Baroness Andrews
777: My Lords, the visitors are very like the Lord Chancellor's visitors. They are the eyes and the ears of the court. They will visit people under the court's jurisdiction and provide reports about the circumstances and needs of those under their care.777Baroness Andrews
: The noble Lord has saved me hours of time explaining it again. He is absolutely right. I would also say that the Public Guardian has never been a trustee. There has been a confusion of nomenclature which has not least confused the noble Lord. I shall leave it there.Baroness Andrews
772771: My Lords, I completely understand why the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, felt that it was so important to put that very grave story on the record. He has been an assiduous champion of that particular case, but I know that his concerns go very much to the heart of the whole administration of the Public Guardianship Office. We are very grateful for the opportunity tonight, in the context of the amendment, to respond to the issues. I can take issue with nothing that he said about the course that that case took—the grave errors of judgment, degrees of incompetence and delays. In the ombudsman's report, he made it clear in sharp language that he was pretty shocked by what he found. It would be tempting to go into some of the detail and quote some of the more positive things that he said in response, but we completely take the point. Everything that the noble Lord said about the quality of care we completely endorse on this side of the Committee.772771Baroness Andrews
775: I shall speak to Amendment No. 196BA. We are alive to the concerns that the noble Lord has raised. Age Concern is greatly worried that abuse is minimal and that vulnerable people have maximum protection.775Baroness Andrews
: The reason I have confidence that we will meet the target of getting rid of all the cases is that, since 2000, we have placed 3,000 cases with private receivers. Over the past 10 months—since April 2004—we have placed 520 of them. We have a good track record and people are coming forward.Baroness Andrews
: I am grateful to the noble Lord for his magnificent job in introducing his amendment. He is right. Amendment No. 200 would make any Order in Council—to confer functions on the Lord Chancellor, the court or another public authority, but only for enabling the Hague Convention on the International Protection of Adults to be given effect in England and Wales—subject to the negative resolution procedure.Baroness Andrews
: I am sorry that the noble Lord continued reading to that point. I can give him a solid answer on what we are going to do but I do not have briefing on why we are doing it at this point.Baroness Andrews
784: We admire the intention behind the amendment to make existing unregistered enduring powers of attorney subject to Clauses 1 to 4 of the Bill. It would make them subject to all the principles of Clause 1, the key principle of best interests, and also to the provisions for assessing capacity in Clauses 2 and 3.784Baroness Andrews
: I thank the noble Baroness for her warm response to Amendment No. 194. I was slightly disappointed that she did not text me to tell me that she was going to be so good to me.Baroness Barker
: The response of the noble Baroness was extremely helpful and it is important to have those points on the record. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Barker
: I support the amendments in this group, in particular Amendment No. 196 in the name of the noble Earl, Lord Howe. I will speak briefly to Amendment No. 194. We put this down as a probing amendment, because I could not see anywhere in the Bill a power for provision of public information about lasting powers of attorney and the appointment of deputies. The reason for putting in what perhaps may seem a rather obvious provision is the fact that, in the course of dealing with older people as I do, one comes across many occasions where people have concerns about powers of attorney being misused or abused. They really have no idea where they should take those concerns. The work of the court and the Office of the Public Guardian is not well understood. It is a function that someone begins to understand only once they have come up against something that has gone wrong. At that point, they are scrabbling around to try to figure out what they should do.Baroness Barker
"( ) exemption from fees where a deputy is appointed totally in relation to state benefits and such capital that accrues from state benefits"Page 29, line 19, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 189:
"( ) exemption from fees where a deputy is appointed totally in relation to state benefits and such capital that accrues from state benefits"Page 29, line 19, at end insert—Baroness Barker
: My Lords, I shall be very brief. Having listened to the debates in Grand Committee and today, I am convinced that there must be some changes. To have certain cancers excluded cannot be right, given that we are very much talking about perceptions. They are either all in or all out. I hope that the noble Baroness will be able to take note of what has been said, by an arrangement to bring forward something acceptable at Third Reading or by agreeing to the amendment.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I remind the House that if Amendment No. 40 is agreed to, I cannot call Amendments Nos. 41 and 42 because of pre-emption.The Deputy Speaker (Baroness Turner of Camden)
760: I very politely waited to speak to Amendment No. 194, but I did not and missed my moment. I shall not be that polite again.760Baroness Chapman
Outsider Status,681"I want to demystify some of the mythology … There's still a lot of fear and ignorance about HIV and the more we can demonstrate to people that it's a liveable, treatable condition like many others and not something to ostracise people for the better … The world was very different when I came out as gay. There was a lot more homophobia around and I thought it was important to say 'Yes, I'm gay, so what? Let's get on with being an MP' … Mr Mandela spoke out after his son died from AIDS … It made me think if he could try and lift the taboo surrounding HIV in those exceptionally difficult circumstances then this was something I could do".Highbury and Islington Express:: My Lords, this amendment would mean that the Bill would no longer include provisions which would treat people with HIV infection, cancer and multiple sclerosis as disabled people for the purposes of the DDA from the point at which they are diagnosed with the condition and before any adverse effects of the condition may have emerged.Outsider Status,681"I want to demystify some of the mythology … There's still a lot of fear and ignorance about HIV and the more we can demonstrate to people that it's a liveable, treatable condition like many others and not something to ostracise people for the better … The world was very different when I came out as gay. There was a lot more homophobia around and I thought it was important to say 'Yes, I'm gay, so what? Let's get on with being an MP' … Mr Mandela spoke out after his son died from AIDS … It made me think if he could try and lift the taboo surrounding HIV in those exceptionally difficult circumstances then this was something I could do".Highbury and Islington Express:Baroness Hollis of Heigham
676: My Lords, I think that there is a way of meeting the concerns of the noble Lords, Lord Skelmersdale and Lord Higgins, without further amending the meaning of "disability" in the
676Baroness Hollis of Heigham
672: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit. That is precisely what I was trying to say. Because I do not have the clinician's vocabulary, I was trying not to use the terms "external" and "internal". The degree to which one responds to a life event may also depend on one's own makeup and mental health and the degree of one's fatigue perhaps from a nursing background and so on. That is why it is not so clear-cut.672Baroness Hollis of Heigham
671670: My Lords, this has been a short but moving debate. I welcome the contribution of the noble Baroness, Lady Murphy, who has experience in this area. I wonder whether the division between the Government's approach and that of the noble Lords who have spoken this afternoon is more apparent than real. I welcome the opportunity to clarify the Government's thinking on this matter.671670Baroness Hollis of Heigham
689688"The Government recognises, however, that it could be unfair to exclude a person with one of these cancers which does not normally require substantial treatment from protection under clause 17, if he or she was, exceptionally, considered to require substantial treatment".in situin situ687"We saw little evidence, however, that there was discrimination against those with, say, benign tumours requiring no treatment or some skin cancers which might require minor treatment. We therefore felt that deeming everyone with cancer, irrespective of whether significant treatment was required or not, as disabled would not be publicly acceptable".: My Lords, most of us speaking today acknowledge that this is an uncomfortable area, to use the words of the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, because most of us have experience within our family and friends of a range of cancers, and know that we can no more group them together than a range of orthopaedic illnesses or problems. They are very different in terms of the effect—and the disabling effect—on the individual. That is why we are dealing with what is rightly a highly sensitive issue.689688"The Government recognises, however, that it could be unfair to exclude a person with one of these cancers which does not normally require substantial treatment from protection under clause 17, if he or she was, exceptionally, considered to require substantial treatment".in situin situ687"We saw little evidence, however, that there was discrimination against those with, say, benign tumours requiring no treatment or some skin cancers which might require minor treatment. We therefore felt that deeming everyone with cancer, irrespective of whether significant treatment was required or not, as disabled would not be publicly acceptable".Baroness Hollis of Heigham
690: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord. I am happy for him to
690Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, yes; absolutely. It will include the DRC and all the relevant organisations that wish to partake in the discussions. If they have evidence we should and will respond. If there is evidence, why would we not move? If there is no evidence, why should we move?Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I have taken advice on this. Whether it is over the next weeks before Third Reading, the consultation will take place fairly shortly. Apart from that, I have taken advice and my remarks in today's discussion will carry the weight the noble Lord wishes.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
"(ca) regulations under section 31AE(1) that make provision as to remedies;"Page 53, line 23, at end insert— moved Amendment No. 47:
"(ca) regulations under section 31AE(1) that make provision as to remedies;"Page 53, line 23, at end insert—Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, before the noble Lords sits down and decides what to do about his amendment perhaps I may make two points. First, he says he does not know what is in and what is out. I do him the courtesy of assuming that he has a copy of the Disability Discrimination Bill consultation document, which lists these things in paragraph 4.10. So there should not be any discussion or dispute about that. Secondly, I have said that before any regulations can be introduced we would have consultation. We expect that consultation to be fairly soon. I have also said that those regulations are available. It is a question for the House whether they should be affirmative. So I cannot see what more the noble Lord could reasonably want in terms of checks on the good faith of government on this: it is built in.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.): My Lords, I beg to move that the Bill be now further considered on Report.(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
745: I support the points raised by the noble Earl. I should like to start by talking about "undue influence". The Master of the Court of Protection, when giving evidence to the Joint Committee, said that possibly 20 per cent of current EPAs are abused in some way. The issue of "undue influence" may arise when a person who lacks capacity can very easily be said to have given the attorney sums of money. There are many cases where people have received large sums in such ways, yet receipt of the money has not been overturned in any way because the law does not sufficiently cover the issue. If someone is found to have knowingly financially gained from the person's lack of capacity, surely that should count as a criminal offence.745Baroness Greengross
754: I support the amendments. One reason for not transferring appointeeships to the Court of Protection was that it would give a huge amount of work to the Office of the Public Guardian. But that could be dealt with under a single order, giving the person directions to administer the person's benefits in their best interests and complying with all the conditions in relation to benefit claims and payments. If appointeeships were
754Baroness Greengross
: I would very much like to support the amendments. I want to point to the other problem that sometimes arises. Although this is a sort of private arrangement, the Government have introduced a system of enduring powers of attorney and future, lasting powers of attorney. There are horrible cases of serial abuse. It is very easy to have a big scam going on with vulnerable people at its heart. You need only two or three people to set up an abuse ring, so to speak.Baroness Greengross
: I thank the Minister for her reply. It would be excellent if people change over, but there will be a lot of people who are muddled and unsure. I hope that when we get to the next stage of the Bill, the noble Baroness will be able to give us more details about how people will be encouraged to make the change over. That would be extremely helpful. It will require some resources and a system for letting people know that, as the Minister said, a good way for them to change over from an EPA would be by putting it in the bin and starting afresh with an LPA. I look forward to hearing more about how that might he done and about making sure that people who have an EPA benefit from the provisions that the Bill introduces. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Greengross
Page 52, line 8, at end insert "notwithstanding" moved Amendment No. 204:
Page 52, line 8, at end insert "notwithstanding"Baroness Greengross
: That is kind of the Minister. My noble friend Lady Chapman will now speak to Amendment No. 195.Baroness Masham of Ilton
"I want to know I won't be left to die".: What does the Minister think of the case of Leslie Burke, a man who has a degenerative brain condition? He has said:
"I want to know I won't be left to die".Baroness Masham of Ilton
: The noble Earl referred to the need for basic physical care. Perhaps the Minister saw the recent "Dispatches" programme on BBC4. If she did—the noble Lord, Lord Warner, did—she will have seen a really shocking state of basic physical care and neglect in two national health hospitals. When I saw the programme I said to myself, "These patients have capacity, although they are vulnerable. Heaven help those who have no capacity. What on earth would happen to them?".Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, I support my noble friend Lord Alton on this matter. We must think carefully about the problem of Shipman and the danger that patients can be in. There must be some provision. I look forward to the Minister's reply; I hope that it is a successful one.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: Hear, hear!A noble Lord
: My Lords, is the noble and learned Lord aware that the Government have been looking at this issue since Clegg? Law Commissions can report and Select Committees, on which I serve, can report; the problem is that the Government are simply not prepared to listen.Lord Campbell of Alloway
: My Lords, I deny that there is a black hole and I refuse to make any forecasts other than those that the Chancellor of the Exchequer will make in his Budget, which will be before any date of an election.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
791: My Lords, I could give 20 or 2,000 answers to that question. There are so many
791Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, my understanding is that the Treasury's actions have been fully in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am not asking the noble Lord to trust any figures. I am simply pointing out that Treasury forecasts have been consistently better than the average of independent forecasters. Let us go on evidence, not on trust.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I do not have all the answers to those questions, but I do know that since 1997 national income after tax under this Government has risen by 2.6 per cent in real terms. I understand that that is a faster rise than that achieved by the Conservative government. However, I shall have to write to my noble friend with the precise figure.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the Government do not accept the Institute of Fiscal Studies' conclusion. The Government's latest fiscal projections were set out in the Pre-Budget Report in December 2004. They showed that the Government are meeting their tough fiscal rules with an average surplus on the current budget as a percentage of GDP over the current economic cycle and net debt projected to remain well below the 40 per cent ceiling of the sustainable investment rule. Updated projections will be published in the Budget.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
"current receipts now on track to meet the Treasury's Pre-Budget Report forecast and … spending moving closer in line with the Pre-Budget Report"."good news for the Government".: My Lords, I assume that the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, quoted from the IFS Green Budget. I have to remind him that five days before the IFS published its Green Budget, it described the public finances data as,
"current receipts now on track to meet the Treasury's Pre-Budget Report forecast and … spending moving closer in line with the Pre-Budget Report"."good news for the Government".Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the Institute of Fiscal Studies is simply recognising that the Treasury works on very cautious assumptions. For example, its estimate of growth for these purposes has consistently been 0.25 per cent below its own central view. That caution has been expressed for many years now since the current framework came into place.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, returning to the question asked by my noble and learned friend Lord Ackner, if the only available offence in cases where death has resulted from the use of excessive force is murder, will that not discourage juries from convicting in cases where there ought to have been a conviction?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
814813: My Lords, I begin by thanking the noble Lord, Lord Norton, for introducing this debate with his usual erudition and wisdom. We need to be clear why it is important that we should increase public engagement with Parliament. It is not a question of political cosmetics, nor is it a question of how best we can sell ourselves to the people, but it goes to the very heart of the kind of political system that we have.814813Lord Parekh
: My Lords, does the Minister agree with me that any driving without full attention can be lethally dangerous? Is she aware that—a few years ago now, I accept—I dealt with an accident where the driver was eating an ice-cream, left the road and ran into a bus queue, causing fatal injuries in some cases? We should not trivialise these issues.Lord Mackenzie of Framwellgate
837Hansard,836835834833: My Lords, this has been a most stimulating and interesting debate, which has covered a very wide range of issues. I share the anxiety mentioned by my noble friend Lord Harrison, who had a wistful look at the Press Gallery but did not notice how many representatives of the press were there to hear our debate today. My noble friend indicated that we might be wasting our sweetness on the desert air, although I think that he thought that we were the dessert course when it came to BBC' reporting of Parliament.837Hansard,836835834833Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, before business begins, may I take the opportunity to inform the House that I will be undertaking a ministerial visit to Dublin on 23 February? Accordingly, I trust that the House will grant me leave of absence.The Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
"I feel totally exhausted. My toddler never stops and I feel so alone. I was in care and now I am bringing up the kid on my own. I just don't know how to be a good mum and there is no one here to help me".854853: My Lords, I am most grateful to my noble friend for introducing this debate."I feel totally exhausted. My toddler never stops and I feel so alone. I was in care and now I am bringing up the kid on my own. I just don't know how to be a good mum and there is no one here to help me".854853Lord Northbourne
857Guardian856855: My Lords, I am no childcare expert and my direct experience of residential care settings and fostering is with frail older people. However, in discussion with the noble Earl, Lord Listowel, before Christmas, we talked about the great similarities in the inadequacies of training and difficulties of supporting the staff in residential care settings at both ends of the age
857Guardian856855Baroness Murphy
: My Lords, is not the ultimate measurement of success or otherwise in the farming industry related to the value of farm properties and the price of land? Can my noble friend tell us whether the price of land is going up or coming down?Lord Brooke of Alverthorpe
: My Lords, should not the police have the credibility of the legal system in mind when they decide to prosecute?Lord Campbell-Savours
Change for ChildrenChange for ChildrenChildrenEvery Child Matters:871dirigisteNext Steps870869868867Every Child Matters.Every Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child Matters866: My Lords, I wish that I had 20 minutes to respond to perhaps one or two of you rather than all of you, because there is so much that needs to be said.Change for ChildrenChange for ChildrenChildrenEvery Child Matters:871dirigisteNext Steps870869868867Every Child Matters.Every Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child Matters866The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
832831The Shield of Achilles,830: My Lords, everyone is very pleased with my noble friend Lord Norton of Louth, and rightly so, because not merely has he introduced this excellent debate but he shows exemplary concern about the great and central issues of our institutions, our constitution and the role of Parliament, which we would all do well to follow.832831The Shield of Achilles,830Lord Howell of Guildford
Reform,"the future has been handled over to events".818Financial Times817: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Norton, for initiating the debate and for the very full and wise way in which he set out the topic. I identify myself with every word.Reform,"the future has been handled over to events".818Financial Times817Lord Puttnam
"There has been a real reduction in cross-sectarian attacks, though a level of intimidation remains and is of serious concern. There continues inter-necine violence within some loyalist paramilitary groups, and intimidation within parts of the republican community against Catholics who participate in civil institutions established as part of the Good Friday Agreement"."From the evidence provided to me it appears that again in 2004 there were several incidents involving acts of terrorism that demonstrated a continuing danger from sophisticated terrorist crime. There were also numerous serious criminal offences of a non-terrorist nature in which there appears to have been or may well have been a strong terrorist link.: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Baroness for giving us an account of the order. The first thing to say about the order is that we are not where we wanted to be. We have the report on the operation of the Terrorism Act and I am glad that it has been taken seriously. Several of the points raised in it in terms of changes have been acknowledged by the noble Baroness."There has been a real reduction in cross-sectarian attacks, though a level of intimidation remains and is of serious concern. There continues inter-necine violence within some loyalist paramilitary groups, and intimidation within parts of the republican community against Catholics who participate in civil institutions established as part of the Good Friday Agreement"."From the evidence provided to me it appears that again in 2004 there were several incidents involving acts of terrorism that demonstrated a continuing danger from sophisticated terrorist crime. There were also numerous serious criminal offences of a non-terrorist nature in which there appears to have been or may well have been a strong terrorist link.Lord Shutt of Greetland
: My Lords, I hesitate to rise, but there is one point I should like to make which I hope will receive a response from the noble Baroness. It is quite clear to me, having observed these matters, that, to the IRA, visible decommissioning equals surrender. I believe that there will have to be visible decommissioning, but somehow, brains must be brought to bear so that that can happen without it being seen as surrender. It is a very important issue which must be tackled, otherwise it may well be so distant that it is beyond us. I believe that the whole business of visible decommissioning must somehow be delinked from surrender in the IRA mind.Lord Shutt of Greetland
884: My Lords, I join other noble Lords in thanking the noble Baroness for bringing the order to the House.884Lord Rogan
878"for the purpose of advancing a political, religious or ideological cause"."designed to influence the government or to intimidate the public or a section of the public"."There is reason to be optimistic about the current situation. Our overall judgement is that the ceasefires of the Provisional IRA and the Ulster Volunteer Force remain in place. Troop numbers are at their lowest level since 1970 and the Army has closed, demolished or vacated 51 of the 105 bases and installations that it occupied at the time of the 1999 PIRA ceasefire".877: My Lords, I pay tribute to the work of the noble Lord, Lord Carlile, in producing, once more, his excellent report. As always, he has considered each aspect of Part VII individually and concluded, wisely, that it is necessary to continue the vast majority of its provisions, with which we agree.878"for the purpose of advancing a political, religious or ideological cause"."designed to influence the government or to intimidate the public or a section of the public"."There is reason to be optimistic about the current situation. Our overall judgement is that the ceasefires of the Provisional IRA and the Ulster Volunteer Force remain in place. Troop numbers are at their lowest level since 1970 and the Army has closed, demolished or vacated 51 of the 105 bases and installations that it occupied at the time of the 1999 PIRA ceasefire".877Lord Rogan
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General referred to provocation as a possible defence enabling manslaughter to be used. But provocation has nothing to do with the point that I raised. It is purely the use of excessive force without any question of provocation at all.Lord Ackner
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Ackner
795: My Lords, I have two questions to put to the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General. First, does he agree that the public want to know not only the degree of force which legitimately can be used against an intruder, but also what are the consequences of exceeding the use of reasonable force? Secondly, as the law stands the position is stark. If death results, the offence is murder and a sentence of imprisonment follows automatically. When will the Government implement the availability of the intermediate offence of manslaughter, as recommended by the Appellate
795Lord Ackner
: My Lords, is the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General aware that in Oklahoma a householder is able to kill or maim an intruder whether or not there is a threat? It is called the "make my day" law. Do we want that in this country?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, how can we trust the Government's borrowing figures when the prediction for the public sector current balance has been out by on average —10 billion per year over the past four years?Lord Northbrook
"Stay by my side as you stayed by Tobias in his travels"."there should be an investment in developing a workforce with a child-centred approach. The Government's workforce strategy should give priority to enhancing the skills of the front line workers and managers".842"It has been suggested by contributors to Blueprint that a consequence of a more regulated and rule-bound culture within social services has been a loss of autonomy and confidence among the front line staff".Start With a Child, Stay with a Child,"We got a woman called Mary from VCC to help us. She asked us what we wanted and then went to speak to social services. Mary came to our review meetings. If we did not understand anything, she explained it to us. We usually found these meetings very difficult, just the two of us, with six or seven adults. Mary helped social services and the fostering agency to come to an agreement about money and we were allowed to stay in our foster home"."Our mother died three years ago and our aunt and sister tried to look after us. They could not cope and we got put in care. We were placed in a children's home and then we were moved to our foster home. We felt scared and angry when we were moved, but we settled in and we expected to stay here until we grew up. Our care plan said that we would stay in our foster home with a view to permanency. We planted a tree in a local cemetery in memory of our mother".Stories From Young People In Care: Shout To Be Heard."many closed down all their homes and went in for fostering, but now find that they do need homes as well".841"'So little?', I asked, thinking of the highly specialised needs of these children. 'I agree', he said. 'I was surprised at what care staff are earning""."Oh, it's not that much…Carers will only cost £12,000–£15,000 a year"."There is nothing in the prospectus … about the cost of the staffing"."As a possible investor, I called the City broker to find out more".Guardian,840839rose to call attention to the prospects of children cared for by local authorities; and to move for Papers."Stay by my side as you stayed by Tobias in his travels"."there should be an investment in developing a workforce with a child-centred approach. The Government's workforce strategy should give priority to enhancing the skills of the front line workers and managers".842"It has been suggested by contributors to Blueprint that a consequence of a more regulated and rule-bound culture within social services has been a loss of autonomy and confidence among the front line staff".Start With a Child, Stay with a Child,"We got a woman called Mary from VCC to help us. She asked us what we wanted and then went to speak to social services. Mary came to our review meetings. If we did not understand anything, she explained it to us. We usually found these meetings very difficult, just the two of us, with six or seven adults. Mary helped social services and the fostering agency to come to an agreement about money and we were allowed to stay in our foster home"."Our mother died three years ago and our aunt and sister tried to look after us. They could not cope and we got put in care. We were placed in a children's home and then we were moved to our foster home. We felt scared and angry when we were moved, but we settled in and we expected to stay here until we grew up. Our care plan said that we would stay in our foster home with a view to permanency. We planted a tree in a local cemetery in memory of our mother".Stories From Young People In Care: Shout To Be Heard."many closed down all their homes and went in for fostering, but now find that they do need homes as well".841"'So little?', I asked, thinking of the highly specialised needs of these children. 'I agree', he said. 'I was surprised at what care staff are earning""."Oh, it's not that much…Carers will only cost £12,000–£15,000 a year"."There is nothing in the prospectus … about the cost of the staffing"."As a possible investor, I called the City broker to find out more".Guardian,840839The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, I rise briefly, first, to thank the Minister for his extensive reply and his clear commitment to this work. We very much look forward to the publication of the workforce strategy.The Earl of Listowel
865864863862: My Lords, I very much associate myself with other noble Lords who have congratulated the noble Earl on introducing this immensely important topic for debate. We all appreciate the authoritative
865864863862Earl Howe
The Chairman of Committees.B. Nicholson of Winterbourne;B. Massey of DarwenB. Howarth of Breckland
B. Nicholson of Winterbourne;B. Massey of DarwenB. Howarth of Breckland798B. HooperB. Gould of PotternewtonE. Dundee
B. HooperB. Gould of PotternewtonE. Dundee: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.The Chairman of Committees.B. Nicholson of Winterbourne;B. Massey of DarwenB. Howarth of Breckland
B. Nicholson of Winterbourne;B. Massey of DarwenB. Howarth of Breckland798B. HooperB. Gould of PotternewtonE. Dundee
B. HooperB. Gould of PotternewtonE. DundeeThe Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
892: My Lords, I shall raise three points since we are speaking about Scotland. The first is very simple. As usual, I approve of this fairly tame clutch of orders, which are devolutionary in trend. I believe that the House should hear about all devolutions, irrespective of how minor they are.892The Earl of Mar and Kellie
889: My Lords, I support the orders that have been explained by the Minister. Sometimes issues and events present themselves in a way that is readily comprehensible and sometimes they do not. This morning, we had a nice easy one which came under the slogan, "Do it yourself" with a B&Q logo, three hulls and a neat lady keeping everything in what is called in the Navy "shipshape and Bristol fashion".889The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, what is the position about smoking tobacco?Earl Attlee
846845: My Lords, I share the House's real appreciation of the noble Earl for
846845The Lord Bishop of Chelmsford
826825: My Lords. it is always a mistake to follow my noble friend Lord Desai, but I shall give it
826825Lord Sewel
: My Lords, as my noble friend does not want to get engaged in hypotheses about the future, would he perhaps care to look at the record over recent years and say whether the performance of the Government is a substantial improvement on what happened under the previous administration, particularly in relation to Black Wednesday, the details of which are now coming out and will be subject to full public view?Lord Tomlinson
The Strategy for Sustainable Farming and Food: My Lords, The Strategy for Sustainable Farming and FoodThe Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, I am surprised that the noble Lord seeks clarification. The food and farming strategy relates to the development of the food and farming industry while the rural strategy relates to the broader prosperity and well-being of rural communities. While there is an overlap in part, both strategies are being pursued with vigour, and I hope to make an announcement relating to the rural strategy very soon. We are conducting a coherent policy to address our rural responsibilities and those for the food chain.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the agriculture sector is not becoming less productive. Its efficiency and productivity have improved significantly. Although a slight downturn in income was recorded last year, that followed three years of substantial increases in income, albeit from a very low figure for 2000. Noble Lords will know that agriculture was deeply affected by both the exchange rate and subsequently by the outbreak of foot and mouth disease. Agriculture has made a significant recovery, but it has a long way to go. Part of that recovery is improving its relationship with the rest of the food chain, which is exactly what the Curry review and the strategy are about.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the choice that will be available to farmers over how to use their land as a result of the single farm payment will mean that farmers can use their land to its maximum profitability, subject to various environmental considerations. Some farmers will not use all their available land for traditional agricultural processes, some will diversify, and some will look to alternative uses. I do not expect to see a significant reduction in the amount of land under agricultural cultivation as a result of the single farm payment. Indeed, in some areas, we may see more land being used. However, other developments are taking place, and some agricultural land may be used to provide, for example, affordable housing-thus addressing what everyone agrees is a major problem in rural areas.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the price of land has risen significantly in most parts of the country, after a slight hiatus when there was uncertainty about the direction of the common agricultural policy. As no more land is being created, I suspect that its price will continue to rise and that land therefore represents a major asset to landowners and those who own long leases.Lord Whitty
794: My Lords, in many circumstances it does not help tenant farmers. The Government are seeking to address aspects of the tenancy situation. A recent report from the TRIG group suggests some improvements in tenancy arrangements which, it is hoped, would encourage a move towards longer-term and more stable tenancies for whole-farm tenants. Ultimately, however, there is a market for tenancies as there is for land. Land is scarce; the price of land is going up; and therefore the balance between the landowner and the tenant in most cases shifts in favour
794Lord Whitty
793: My Lords, agriculture is a diverse private sector industry, albeit that there is a strong
793Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the development of biofuels, which I strongly support and hope to see measures brought forward in support of, does not count towards the food balance because, by definition, they are non-food. Biofuels have the potential to be useful and profitable adjuncts to the agriculture sector.Lord Whitty
803: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Norton of Louth, for opening the debate and for his many fine suggestions. I shall devote my seven slender minutes to how we physically receive the visiting public into the Lords, how accurately your Lordships' House is reported and how we might improve both.803Lord Harrison
823822821: My Lords, I too thank my noble friend Lord Norton for raising this subject so vital to our democracy and also for his penetrating introduction, particularly for drawing the distinction between party politicians and Parliament.823822821Lord Pearson of Rannoch
894893: My Lords, I will attempt to answer all the questions raised. As usual, if I miss any out, we will write.894893Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.8th Report from the Joint Committee: My Lords, I beg move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.8th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Evans of Temple Guiting

Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.6th Report from the Joint Committee: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.6th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Evans of Temple Guiting
Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.4th Report from the Joint Committee8888878864th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 9 December 2004 be approved [Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.4th Report from the Joint Committee8888878864th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Evans of Temple Guiting
824: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Norton of Louth, for introducing the debate. Perhaps I may say to my noble friend Lord Parekh that there are five academics out of 13 speakers and, therefore, the special meeting of academics and parliamentarians is here and nowhere else. However, I found him much too satisfied with the relationship between the public and Parliament. I recall what I thought a rather splendid event, although everyone was shocked, when the fox hunters invaded the House of Commons. I remembered 1968 and student sit-ins, and so on. I know that I could penetrate the House of Commons with no problem. It is an archaic building which no one can guard. The sheer antediluvian arrangements of Parliament were exposed for everyone to see, with elderly men, encumbered by swords and unsuitable dress, trying to chase flexible, agile and athletic young people.824Lord Desai
: My Lords, what status does advice given by ACPO have in a court of law?Lord Merlyn-Rees
: My Lords, I am not here to bash the police but perhaps I may ask a wider question: if the Crown Prosecution Service determines whether it is in the public interest to prosecute someone, what public interest was served in this case?Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, while accepting that there are distinctions between the criminal law and the civil law, does not the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General accept that there is a certain illogicality in that the test that is used in civil law to judge whether a burglar can sue a householder rests upon whether the householder has used grossly disproportionate force against the burglar, whereas the test in criminal law of whether a householder has acted properly rests upon reasonable force? Can the noble and learned Lord explain why there should be two distinct tests and whether he accepts that that is illogical?Lord Henley
811: My Lords, I add my thanks to my noble friend Lord Norton of Louth for introducing this important debate. How refreshing it is
811Lord Dean of Harptree
812: I say that because under most of the proposals for reform the House would be less representative of the people of this country and diversity would be reduced. I am particularly against an elected element in your Lordships' House. My noble friend on the Front Bench is probably looking disapprovingly at me, but in my view the elected element would make the House less representative of the interests of this country and too much like a pale shadow of another place, particularly if nomination for candidates was dominated by the party machine, which would almost certainly be the case.812Lord Dean of Harptree
: My Lords, that is absolutely right. I said that the Government looked at the issue of provocation which creates different problems. For instance, people find it offensive that someone is acquitted of murder and convicted only of manslaughter on the grounds of provocation when that appears to mean that the victim brought the death upon herself—
and it often is "herself"—when what is actually at issue, for example, is sexual jealousy or concern that a wife is leaving. It was in that context that the question of the proper charge for excessive violence in self-defence arose. I was not for a moment equating the two issues. It is simply that they both arise out of the present law of manslaughter and murder.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, my noble friend makes a very important point. Of course the law is determined by the courts, by the judges, and applied by the juries. But the guidance which has been produced setting out in plain language householders' rights and the level of force that they can use is, in the Government's view, extremely helpful in reassuring the public. It also indicates the way in which the police and the prosecution service will act. That is also important in giving reassurance that people can protect themselves, their families and their homes against intruders by using reasonable force. The Government very strongly support that fact.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, the answer is "no" to both parts of the noble Lord's question.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I am sure that the noble and learned Lord is right. That is why I said that I have sympathy with the point made by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner. The issue needs to he further looked at. At the time of the debate about provocation it was indicated that the Home Office believed—and I agree entirely with this—that there is a need for a further review of this area.Lord Goldsmith
797: My Lords, this is a difficult, sensitive and delicate area. One is dealing with cases of death caused by unlawful violence, whatever that may be. I have already indicated that I have some sympathy with
797Lord Goldsmith
796: My Lords, I do not accept that it is illogical. The expression "reasonable in the circumstances" is
used throughout the criminal law as the lest for deciding culpability where violence is used
796Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, in the second part of his question, my noble friend is right. The Director of Public Prosecutions has indicated that there have been cases where householders have killed the intruder and there has not been a prosecution. As to the first part of his question, again my noble friend is right. The Crown Prosecution Service carried out an informal—and therefore not necessarily exhaustive—survey and found that over the past 15 years there were only 11 cases where people were prosecuted for attacking intruders in houses, commercial premises or private land. In fact, only seven of those appear to have resulted from domestic household burglaries.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, in answer to the noble and learned Lord's first question, yes, but I do not think there is any doubt that the public do know what the consequences are. That is what the debate has been about. As to his second question, I have sympathy with what he says. He will know that recently in the context of manslaughter by reason of provocation, the Law Commission was asked to look at the circumstances in which manslaughter may be the appropriate charge and drew attention to the issue to which the noble and learned Lord referred of what the correct charge should be where there is a case of self-defence but the violence is excessive. That needs to he looked at further.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, yes. On 12 January 2005, the Home Secretary announced that, in the Government's view, the current law is sound but that there was a need to provide clarification to householders regarding their rights. On 1 February, the Crown Prosecution Service and the Association of Chief Police Officers issued guidance. This guidance sets out in plain language what householders' rights are and the level of force that they can use if faced with an intruder in their home. As I and the Home Secretary made clear, the Government welcome the guidance.The Attorney-General (Lord Goldsmith)
802Your ParliamentParliament and the Legislative Process"the more integrated and comprehensive experience of the Scottish Parliament, where notions of public engagement are embodied in all its operations".801The Work of the House of Lords."Very little is currently done with petitions to the House of Commons".Connecting Parliament with the Public:Audit of Political Engagement800799rose to call attention to the case for increasing public engagement with Parliament; and to move for Papers.802Your ParliamentParliament and the Legislative Process"the more integrated and comprehensive experience of the Scottish Parliament, where notions of public engagement are embodied in all its operations".801The Work of the House of Lords."Very little is currently done with petitions to the House of Commons".Connecting Parliament with the Public:Audit of Political Engagement800799Lord Norton of Louth
838: My Lords, several contributors have stressed that politicians are not trusted. In recent surveys, hardly anyone has been found to trust politicians to tell the truth. The same surveys show that about 80 per cent of those questioned trust professors to tell the truth, so I should stress that today I am speaking in my role as a professor.838Lord Norton of Louth
816The Good Schools Guide,815: My Lords, I thank my noble friend Lord Norton for starting the debate. I agreed with everything he said, I believe, including the suggestion that there must be a public stage of every Bill. As was set out by the Labour Party Back-Bench committee on the procedures of this House and echoed by the noble Lord, Lord Parekh, we are looking for dialogue, a genuine opportunity for people outside to influence what is said and what goes on in the House. We are looking for mechanisms that would make that possible.816The Good Schools Guide,815Lord Lucas
: My Lords, what are the Government doing to remedy the decline in self-sufficiency in temperate foods in this country? Will he also give special mention to biofuels and oilseeds?Lord Hylton
Manifesto for Change858Every Child Matters,: My Lords, I join in the thanks that have been offered from all quarters to my noble friend Lord Listowel. He is right to keep drawing our attention to the needs of this particularly vulnerable group of people. I am glad to say that his remarks are strongly echoed throughout the Cross Benches.Manifesto for Change858Every Child Matters,Lord Hylton
806Parliament and the Legislative Process805en masse.: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Norton, for making this debate possible and for his challenging opening speech. I declare an interest as chairman of the Hansard Society, whose purpose is better to connect Parliament and people. I shall be referring to some work the society does in a moment.806Parliament and the Legislative Process805en masse.Lord Holme of Cheltenham
: My Lords, I am sure that the Minister will agree that the Curry report is only one of a number of strategies available to the Government. I refer also to the rural White Paper, the Haskins review and the rural delivery review. Which of those strategies takes priority and how do those concurrent policies mix with the Curry report itself? Would he please clarify the situation?Lord Livsey of Talgarth
The Strategy for Sustainable Farming and Food.asked Her Majesty's Government:The Strategy for Sustainable Farming and Food.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that the Treasury, within the past 24 hours, has shown a reluctance to release forecasts made at the time of Black Wednesday on the basis that it could set a precedent for information about current forecasts? Would it not be sensible for the Treasury to accept as a matter of policy that whenever forecasts are made available to Ministers, bearing in mind that these are forecasts not policy recommendations, they should be made public at the same time?Lord Newby
: My Lords, the switch to the single farm payment system for supporting agriculture has led to the appearance of an increasing number of articles predicting that land at present being cropped will be taken out of agricultural production entirely. What contribution does the Minister think that development will make to sustainable agriculture?Lord Dixon-Smith
ad hoc890: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his explanation of the orders, although even with his explanation they do not seem to me to have the lapidary clarity that, in an ideal world, would be the background against which one debated such a disparate—dare I say?—ragbag of orders.ad hoc890Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, since the golden rule is the yardstick by which taxation and spending are brought broadly into line over a certain period, does my noble friend accept the view of the Institute of Fiscal Studies, part of which he quoted, that the outcome could be even better than the Treasury expected? That is a rather surprising change of attitude by the Institute of Fiscal Studies. Will he confirm that he holds that view as well?Lord Sheldon
: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Baroness for that Answer, which was as surprising as it was unexpected. Perhaps I should declare an interest in that, invariably, on the way to and from your Lordships' House I eat a sandwich in the car to keep myself awake and prevent an accident.Earl Ferrers
:asked Her Majesty's GovernmentEarl Ferrers
: My Lords, can the noble Lord, Lord Whitty, explain how the Government's determination to develop agriculture—I believe that he referred to the development of agriculture—coincides with the fact that the agriculture sector is becoming less productive and less rewarding?Earl Ferrers
876Padre Pio"withdrawing the offer to do something it was already refusing to do anyway"."put all weapons beyond use",875874: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness the Leader of the House for setting out the terms of the order. It is not my intention to follow her in going through the details of the order. We are reassured by her assurance that these are kept continually under review. Suffice it to say that, like the
876Padre Pio"withdrawing the offer to do something it was already refusing to do anyway"."put all weapons beyond use",875874Viscount Bridgeman
882"exclusively democratic and peaceful means".881"The decommissioning of all paramilitary arms within two years following endorsement in referendums".: My Lords, I rise to support the order before the House. Again, the Lord President set out the purpose of the order and I shall not repeat the detail of what she said. We support the Government in their efforts to pursue the goal of decommissioning, despite the disappointing statements recently made by the IRA.882"exclusively democratic and peaceful means".881"The decommissioning of all paramilitary arms within two years following endorsement in referendums".Viscount Bridgeman
: My Lords, can the Attorney-General confirm that in the past 15 years there have been only 11 prosecutions of householders who used force against burglars, and that of that number only five were convicted? Has he seen the comments of the Director of Public Prosecutions that there have been cases where householders have shot dead or fatally stabbed burglars, or hit them over the head with a baseball bat or metal bar, and have not been prosecuted?Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
852"Previous research found they often have to overcome low expectations and discouragement from social workers, a severe shortage of information and advice, and acute financial problems"."going to university from a care background is a courageous decision".851850: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Listowel must feel weighed down by the compliments and gratitude. May I add to his burdens? I admire the way that he leads us again and again to the issue of looked-after children. Last Wednesday we were talking about parenting. When we talk about cared-for children, we are concerned with parenting in particular. As the Government have said in their White Papers, parenting is fundamental to children's prospects.852"Previous research found they often have to overcome low expectations and discouragement from social workers, a severe shortage of information and advice, and acute financial problems"."going to university from a care background is a courageous decision".851850Lord Dearing
: My Lords, given the Minister's reply to the previous question, could he please explain to the House how the increase in the value of land, to which he alluded, helps tenant farmers?Lord Inglewood
: My Lords, the House has heard the noble Baroness's description of the events of this case. What added value was gained by bringing the helicopter into the picture?Lord Inglewood
: My Lords, can my noble friend tell me what the IFS Green Budget report has to say about the rise in national income after tax under this Government compared with the previous government? How does the percentage of national income taken in tax under this Government compare with the average taken under the previous government?Lord McKenzie of Luton
829828827: My Lords, it is a particular pleasure to speak, for the first time, immediately after the noble Lord, Lord Sewel. He and I were introduced on the same day, now slightly over 10 years ago I regret to say, when we were both young.829828827Lord Wallace of Saltaire
Green Budget 2005 asked Her Majesty's Government:Green Budget 2005Lord Roberts of Conwy
790"there is no strong evidence that economic stability and Government policies have raised the sustainable long-term growth rate of the economy".: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for that ample reply. But perhaps I may draw his attention to the report's conclusion, which says that,
790"there is no strong evidence that economic stability and Government policies have raised the sustainable long-term growth rate of the economy".Lord Roberts of Conwy
883: My Lords, I too thank the Lord President for bringing this order. which of course these Benches will support. In the euphoria following the Good Friday agreement, there was an expectation that decommissioning could occur by 2002—the latest date set down in the 1997 Act. However, as we have heard, it took almost that long to achieve the beginning of decommissioning. Therefore, it will take longer to achieve total decommissioning, so the amnesty must be extended.883Baroness Harris of Richmond
844Guardian843: My Lords, it is a delight to follow the noble Earl, Lord Listowel. I thank him for introducing this important subject. My maiden speech in this House was in a small debate also arranged by the noble Earl, Lord Listowel, about the need for counselling services for young people leaving care. My speech was three minutes long. That was two minutes more than I needed to convey what I knew about the subject at the time. That debate sparked my interest in a subject about which I had never thought before. The dedication of the noble Earl to this subject in this House keeps me thinking about it. Today, I pay tribute to the noble Earl for that and thank him very much.844Guardian843Baroness Barker
891: My Lords, I do not want to detain the Minister; I know that he has an important engagement outside the House for which he is already late. I just want to ask him two questions about the order concerning functions transferred to the Scottish Ministers. The first is about the fire and rescue services' pensions. From what he said, I was not quite sure whether that will involve the Scottish Executive paying pension to employees of the fire and rescue
891Baroness Carnegy of Lour
849 WA 15.][0fficial Report,"no conclusive evidence about which comes first, truancy or offending".— WA 15.][0fficial Report,People Like Us,848847: My Lords, I, too, pay
849 WA 15.][0fficial Report,"no conclusive evidence about which comes first, truancy or offending".— WA 15.][0fficial Report,People Like Us,848847Baroness Howe of Idlicote
820819: My Lords, I, too, pay tribute to the noble Lord, Lord Norton, for providing the opportunity to debate this subject. The noble Lord, Lord Norton, is a constitutional lawyer of high repute and he has often raised important issues about our political processes, sometimes raising a warning flag when active steps have to be taken to maintain an effective political system. We owe him a debt of gratitude for doing that. As the noble Lord, Lord Puttnam, has just said, sometimes we have to get there in the nick of time. In raising this debate we are perhaps just at that margin.820819Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
810809: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Norton of Louth, on inspiring this important debate, and I welcome many of his suggestions about process. This debate is of the utmost importance because it is inextricably linked to the need to nurture our democracy. I am a passionate democrat, and I deeply regret the current lack of interest and engagement in the governance of our country.810809Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that, although some people may have benefited, the question of whether one has made money or seriously lost it depends entirely on what type of farming one is involved in?Baroness Trumpington
: My Lords, did it ever occur to the powers that be to give the lady a caution?Baroness Trumpington
861860859: My Lords, I congratulate the
861860859Baroness Walmsley
Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend Lady Amos, I beg to introduce a Bill to make provision about the registration of electors in Northern Ireland in cases where required information is not provided. I beg to move that this Bill be now read a first time.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
789: My Lords. the £30 fixed penalty notice could, by some, be described as a
789Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, they absolutely should. But if an officer sees a person driving in a way that causes concern, he has a duty to bring that matter to the driver's attention and seek to make it right. If you eat an apple, try to turn left with one hand on the wheel and the other doing something else, it is not surprising if your driving becomes rather erratic in the process. As such, you put yourself and other people at risk. I am sure that the House would think that a very appropriate thing to try to stop.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the defendant pleaded not guilty, as she was entitled to, and wanted to have her day in court. Evidence had to be produced on where the incident took place, what the officer saw or did not see and the nature of her driving. That was the defendant's right. The Crown Prosecution Service, together with the police, has a duty to produce evidence that can be put before the court so that it can determine whether or not the person is guilty.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I wholeheartedly agree with my noble friend; there have been some real tragedies. It is not just other victims who are affected. Quite often, the victim is the driver, whose family simply never gets over it.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I believe that a number of people engage in it.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the total cost to Northumbria Police was £117. This comprises £50 in police officer time and £67 for a helicopter to carry out a 10-minute diversion to take aerial footage while returning to base from other operational duties. A fixed-wing aircraft was not used at any time in this case. The total cost to the Crown Prosecution Service was £425.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
788: My Lords, it is a rare occasion for me not to agree with the noble Earl but I regret to say that I do not on this occasion. I shall tell noble Lords why: the helicopter was on other operational duties; in such circumstances the police
788Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, a degree of levity has been used in relation to this case but it is serious. Unfortunately, 45,000 people either die or are injured on our roads. Two-thirds of the incidents do not involve other vehicles but are as a result of drivers' inattention. If you are eating, speaking on the telephone or doing something else in a way that affects the nature of your driving, you could cause a traffic incident in which you or somebody else will he injured. Unfortunately, an unacceptably high number of injuries and accidents happen on our roads every day. Ten people die every day.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, we are not surprised by the Minister's first response, which was to deny the view of the Institute of Fiscal Studies that there is a black hole in the Government's finances. In that case, the Minister will not find my question very difficult. Will he deny that the Government have no plans to raise national insurance contributions after the election?Baroness Noakes
inter alia808807: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Norton, for introducing this timely debate. We live in an era when public engagement is critical for the big, often unprecedented issues that face us as a fast-moving, 21st-century society. Never before has engagement been so needed on the new types of problems and opportunities—many of them influenced by science and technology—that face us today. Indeed, it is a search for the best strategy for public empowerment in a rapidly changing society in which scientists also need to engage.inter alia808807Baroness Greenfield
Baroness Amos.7th Report from the Joint Committee8737th Report, from the Joint Committee rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 20 January be approved [Baroness Amos.7th Report from the Joint Committee8737th Report, from the Joint CommitteeThe Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
879: My Lords, I share the disappointment that we have to renew this order this evening. In our debate last week we went over many of the wider political issues which have been raised this evening, but I would like to reiterate a couple of points.879Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos7th Report from the Joint Committee8807th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 26 January be approved [Baroness Amos7th Report from the Joint Committee8807th Report from the Joint CommitteeBaroness Amos
885: My Lords, I thank all noble Lords who have spoken for the support that has been given to the order. I entirely agree with the noble Viscount, Lord Bridgeman, that we need to deliver what the people of Northern Ireland thought that they were getting.885Baroness Amos
: My Lords, it is some time now since I introduced the first measure which had the effect of protecting those who were in the act of delivering up their weapons for decommissioning from the risk of being prosecuted for possession. That is what this order extends, with some variations. It was a necessary measure years ago and it remains necessary. However, I hope that the Government will make the very most of the cardinal feature of this measure. It is easy for it to be misrepresented as a concession, a weakening. It is not. I agree with what has already been said in this short debate. It is important that the IRA should be deprived of any possible argument to justify a failure to decommission its weapons. In that process this extension measure plays an important part.Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: Oh!Noble Lords
958Modern Railways957"In the interests of criminal justice, HSE will need to make an application on every occasion when legal proceedings are under consideration"Railway Magazine956Guardian: My Lords, I declare an interest as chairman of the Rail Freight Group. In doing so, I very much welcome the Bill and especially the opening remarks of my noble friend Lord Davies of Oldham about freight. I am very grateful for them.958Modern Railways957"In the interests of criminal justice, HSE will need to make an application on every occasion when legal proceedings are under consideration"Railway Magazine956GuardianLord Berkeley
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Viscount for giving way. Can he explain why the 10 per cent growth in freight over five years will not happen?Lord Berkeley
: My Lords, it has grown 10 per cent in the past year.Lord Berkeley
: My Lords, I totally agree that the Government have an excellent policy for small and medium-sized businesses. At the same time, however, I am sure that the Minister will agree that ethnic minority businesses have a different culture. For that reason, they are not in a position to take advantage of what is offered to them. What steps are the Government taking to ensure that ethnic minority businesses are also benefiting from our policies?Lord Patel of Blackburn
943raison d'être942941vis-à-vis: My Lords, I congratulate my noble friend on both the manner and content of his presentation of the Bill. He was as ever reasonable in tone and phrase, lenient to the listener in length and spoke with all his customary candour. By common consent and for the reasons he gave, the Bill is one of very considerable importance to the economic and social life of this country.943raison d'être942941vis-à-visLord Morris of Manchester
: If the noble Lord is saying that taxation should be a Community matter—I apologise if I have misunderstood him.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I apologise deeply for having misunderstood the noble Lord. Of course, he is right to point out that co-operation in dealing with harmful tax differences is valuable. He is entirely right to say that the unanimity rule must apply.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, my noble friend's question is closely related to the role of the European Court of Justice. It has an essential role to play in maintaining the four fundamental freedoms: the right to free movement for workers; the freedom of establishment; the freedom to supply services; and the free movement of capital. As my noble friend Lady Royall has rightly implied. these are of huge benefit both to business and to individuals in this country.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
901: My Lords, I am afraid that, unusually for him, the noble Lord, Lord Howell, is confusing the perfectly legitimate provisions for enhanced co-operation between member states who choose to co-operate in tax matters and directives that
901Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: No, my Lords. As the European Court of Justice repeatedly acknowledges, direct taxation is a matter of member states' competence. That competence must be exercised in accordance with Community law, which includes the provisions of the European Communities treaty and any legislation adopted by the Community. The Government successfully defended unanimity for EU tax measures at the Inter-Governmental Conference last June, and there will therefore be no change to the position under the new EU constitutional treaty.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
900: My Lords, if the noble Lord cares to table a Question about borders, that
900Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, chat is a totally unjustified attack on the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, who does not, I understand, take the Conservative Whip.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, as last October, I deny that there is a black hole. There is no question of estimating losses to the Treasury. The role of the European Court of Justice is unchanged; it is in interpreting European Union law, not in legislating.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, this is called bracketing, in artillery terms. We have the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, who wants us to have nothing to do with the European Union and the noble Lord, Lord Taverne, who represents the federalist view.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
Lord Grocott.: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend the Lord President of the Council, I beg to move the first Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.Lord Grocott.Lord Grocott
Lord Grocott.: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend the Lord President of the Council, I beg to move the second Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.Lord Grocott.Lord Grocott
931930929The Future of Rail928: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.931930929The Future of Rail928Lord Davies of Oldham
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)935934933932: My Lords, I apologise to the noble Earl. There is a great danger in the interests of making the speech in the time that I am allowed to use those symbols familiar to all of us involved with the industry. I recognise that I owe the House the courtesy of explaining the acronym. I am talking now about the passenger transport executives. I am referring to PTEs, and I am sorry if my enunciation is not as precise as it should have been. I hope that the noble Earl will forgive me.(Lord Davies of Oldham.)935934933932Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, my noble friend makes an exceedingly important point. We are all conscious that many in the ethnic communities prove to be enormously successful in the development of small businesses. But we can always extend services, especially against a background where some of our ethnic communities are concentrated in areas where other opportunities for work are fewer. We are keen to expand the service in those areas. That is why the emphasis from Business Link and the regional development agencies is an attempt to bring the whole strategy closer to people so that the areas can in fact meet discrete needs such as my noble friend indicated.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is absolutely right. Small businesses have as much need as any other part of our society for a strong, vigorous and competitive economy. My noble friend will recognise the Government's achievements in terms of this broader framework which is leading to the establishment of greater numbers of small businesses than we have ever seen before.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is a very important point indeed. We are conscious that often the strategy for people who are in occupations where significant change is taking place—obviously farming is one of those—are in need of help and advice on how resources can be redeployed. They may even need access to a certain amount of capital support to get them started. It is the role of the Small Business Service to provide that support, often to individuals who have limited experience of setting up such a business. We recognise the strength of the noble Countess's point.Lord Davies of Oldham
897: My Lords, we have had many other communications from those who use the service which show how well valued it is. There have been 5 million visits to the information website over the past year. We have responded to the needs of small businesses. I will single out one obvious area that is often referred to by the Opposition and other parts of the House—the need to control regulation and the extent to which small businesses have to keep up with the necessary regulation imposed on them. In consultation with them, we have agreed to limit the dates on which regulations come into force each year. We have brought a whole new area of regulation within that framework so that instead of small businesses being anxious about regulations coming in severally on dates throughout the year, everything is
897Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the Small Business Service will halve in size from its current complement of 400 to 200 staff by April 2006. It will have less direct involvement in the delivery of programmes. It will focus increasingly on providing a centre of expertise, leadership and challenge on small business matters within government and across the regions. It will influence policies and behaviour in pursuit of the Government's enterprise agenda.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, my noble friend is quite right: the Labour Party is indeed the party of small business. It will be noted on all sides of the House that the James report indicates that the Opposition have a proposal to remove this service. Our intention with the devolving of Business Link to the regional development agencies is of course to strengthen the regional aspect to which my noble friend made reference. We are aware that particular sections of the community need support in these terms and we will extend and continue to provide that.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the House will know that the noble Lord has put a most modest gloss on the Liberal Democrat proposals, which are of course to abolish the DTI entirely, with all the consequent ramifications for the valuable work done by that department. I emphasise that the Small Business Service is valued by small businesses. The increased use of its website and the increased indication of small business customer satisfaction with the provision of the service is testimony to that. It should be recognised that, among many sections of our community, setting up a small business involves a very great risk indeed, and that help, advice and guidance are welcomed. We intend to continue providing that service.Lord Davies of Oldham
978977976975: My Lords, this has been a most interesting and challenging debate. The principal sustenance that I derive from it is from the contribution of the noble Viscount, Lord Astor, who said that there are parts of the Bill—dare I say, the principle of the Bill?—to which he subscribes. It was certainly clear from all other parts of the House that, whereas that we will enjoy debating an enormous number of issues in Committee, the principles on which the Bill is based command general assent. That is not to say that I do not recognise that we will have a fulfilling and interesting Committee, but this is Second Reading and my job is to emphasise that we are discussing the principles behind the measure.978977976975Lord Davies of Oldham
898: My Lords, the Lord Chancellor has a constitutional role to protect the rule of law. That role has been recognised in the Constitutional Reform Bill. Decisions on new anti-terrorism measures are being taken collectively by the Government. I am explicitly involved in that
898The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, I cannot repeat what was discussed between Ministers or the Attorney-General, but I can confirm that the Lord Chancellor was in the loop. In his Statement about the Law Lords' judgment, the Home Secretary made it clear that because the Law Lords had ruled that Part 4 was incompatible with the Human Rights Act, it would be replaced with something compatible. I can think of no clearer demonstration of this Government's commitment to the rule of law.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I cannot give a running commentary on the timing of the legislation. The Home Secretary will bring it forward when it is ready.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
899: My Lords, in relation to the advice from the Law Lords, there can be no institution in the world that does not seek advice from its lawyers and keep it private. That is the right approach. On the Iraq issue, the Attorney-General set out in legal terms the lawful basis of the war. On
899Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, when it is brought forward, the detail of the Bill will determine compliance with the Human Rights Act. We should wait until the Bill is before us before we consider the detail.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Economist: My Lords, I am grateful for all the praise for past Conservative efforts. II makes a slight change from the usual chorus from the Benches opposite. However, does the Minister recall, first, that a directive is coming up on 1 July this year to hannonise all tax treatment of savings income? Secondly, does he recall an article in the EconomistLord Howell of Guildford
904: My Lords, does the Minister accept that the Sharm el-Sheikh outcome is very welcome indeed—as long it is not undermined—particularly as it was achieved without the outside powers breathing down the participants' necks? That is a real gain and is very encouraging. Would it not be right to now see whether Israel could be invited to be
904Lord Howell of Guildford
967966965: My Lords, I support this Bill, but first I must declare an interest. I am employed in the railway industry as chairman of the Rail Safety and Standards Board, an organisation which facilitates agreements between parties on safety in the railway system. I also reflect from a position of 12 years with London Underground, which carried 1 billion passengers a year, and two years looking after the buses, where London Transport carried more than 2 billion passengers a year. That gives one a pretty raw relationship with public transport. I am afraid that I am not as in love with the railways as are some speakers in the debate.967966965Lord Tunnicliffe
: My Lords, does not the emptiness of the Question asked by the noble Lord, Lord Pearson illustrate the fact that there really is no doubt whatever now that, on tax, unanimity must prevail? Should that not be accepted in all parts of the House?Lord Taverne
: My Lords, I was saying that, surely, there should be agreement that, on taxation, sovereignty is not being infringed; the rule of unanimity must apply. That is not exactly a federalist viewpoint.Lord Taverne
: My Lords, does the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor consider that control orders decided by the Home Secretary on reasonable suspicion are compliant with the European Convention on Human Rights?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Richard, that at present there is no procedure for the High Court to take any action if a certificate of this kind is sent to it. But I also think that the noble Lord pointed the way—that is, it would be for the complainant who had initially made the complaint to the ombudsman to take proceedings for an injunction or order against the listed authority and, in so doing, a certificate from the ombudsman that the listed authority had simply refused to act upon his report could be a very useful piece of evidence in those proceedings. I understood the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy, to be moving in that direction. It may be a little unusual to use a certificate of this kind in evidence; nevertheless, it would be a perfectly rational and proper way of enforcing the ombudsman's report.Lord Thomas of Gresford
896: My Lords, does the Minister accept that, whether or not the Labour Party is the party of small business, it is certainly not the party of small government? Does he not agree that his own Answer demonstrates that perhaps the moment has come for the Government to demonstrate a movement towards being the party of smaller government by abolishing the Small Business Service and spending the money helping small businesses in many of the other ways
896Lord Razzall
: My Lords, can my noble friend assure the House that she will do everything in her power and Her Majesty's Government will do all they can to support Abu Mazen in his efforts to dismantle the terror groups and preserve the ceasefire, and the Israeli Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, in his determination to dismantle settlements and relocate the settlers within Israel?Lord Janner of Braunstone
: My Lords, having listened to this interesting discussion, I conclude that there may be no perfect solution. But a seven-year term of office provides a sound basis that will attract top-quality candidates to the post, without offering life tenure. I am grateful to the Government for tabling Amendment No. 3.Lord Prys-Davies
: My Lords, in Grand Committee it seemed to me that the Minister relied heavily on the past excellent compliance record of the listed authorities. That is all very well but it may not be the case in the future. If a listed body should say to the ombudsman, "No, we will not agree your findings. We will not implement your recommendations", then in those circumstances, unless the complainant can take it further, it appears to me that the findings of the ombudsman are almost worthless. If that is the position, then it is unsatisfactory.Lord Prys-Davies
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy, has explained that the amendment has been prompted by the difficulties that he has experienced in obtaining copies of reports and information published or received by the Assembly. I have experienced similar difficulties in the past—although I must hasten to add that the staff of our Library have always gone out of their way to trace the copy documents or reports that I have requested.Lord Prys-Davies
"remain to be convinced that the Department for Transport will be any more adept than the SRA at identifying the need for investment in, and enhancement of, the network"."The Strategic Rail Authority will put railways at the centre of an integrated transport system".: My Lords, I thank the Minister for introducing the Bill. It is a Bill that has been the subject of lively debate in another place and I am sure that we will see some continuation of that in your Lordships' House."remain to be convinced that the Department for Transport will be any more adept than the SRA at identifying the need for investment in, and enhancement of, the network"."The Strategic Rail Authority will put railways at the centre of an integrated transport system".Lord Rotherwick
"closures and cost cutting above serving passenger needs".937"Yes. [they will hold Network Rail to account] In addition, the Office of Rail Regulation has a duty to enforce the conditions of Network Rail's licence".Which?"use of access charges reviews".936: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord and 1 am sure that he will see that everything
"closures and cost cutting above serving passenger needs".937"Yes. [they will hold Network Rail to account] In addition, the Office of Rail Regulation has a duty to enforce the conditions of Network Rail's licence".Which?"use of access charges reviews".936Lord Rotherwick
920: My Lords, I have not until now said anything during the proceedings on the Bill but I am bound to say that what the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, is proposing in his amendment is somewhat revolutionary. First, as I understand it, he is saying that if an ombudsman comes to a certain conclusion against a listed authority, the authority should somehow have a right of appeal to an independent adjudicator or arbitrator before the ombudsman makes his report to the Assembly. That seems to me totally to defeat the purpose of the ombudsman.
920Lord Richard
939"Duty of the Secretary of State and Transport for London to co-operate",938: My Lords, I am glad that we have the chance to debate the place of the railways in our society and economy and hence to measure the Railways Bill against that environment. In so doing, we want to find out how much strategic significance there is in the Bill.939"Duty of the Secretary of State and Transport for London to co-operate",938The Earl of Mar and Kellie
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that the statement from the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, is a totally unwarranted attack on the work of the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher, and her excellent European Commissioner, the noble Lord, Lord Cockfield, in creating the European single market? That was work they did in the days when the Conservative Party was enthusiastically pro-European, as was shown in the degree to which it surrendered national vetoes in the Maastricht Treaty. Does my noble friend not further agree that the statement from the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, is merely him peddling yet again his usual brand of Euro-nonsense?Lord Tomlinson
955954953952: My Lords, first, I declare an interest as an adviser to the board of Transport for London. Perhaps I should preface my remarks by making it clear that, unlike some of your Lordships here today, I did not, as a boy, have the fascination with rolling stock and the arrangements of the railway system that has clearly motivated some of the interests and expressions of view that we have heard during the course of this debate.955954953952Lord Harris of Haringey
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that Answer. What more can the Government and the SBS do to promote SME formation among women, ethnic minorities and in the 15 per cent of regional areas of Britain that are most deprived? According to the recent SBS report, there have been hardly any increases in the numbers of SMEs among those groups and in those areas.Lord Harrison
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Harrison
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for that reply, which reminds us of the Prime Minister's red herring in his negotiations on the constitution, when he assured us that he was keeping control of our borders. As we now discover, it has swum off into the tentacles of Brussels.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, since we have a few minutes on the clock, would the Minister be good enough to answer the question I put to him about corporation tax? I did not ask him whether the European Union already controlled it, but whether the Commission and the European Court of Justice had already invaded it.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
(b) if the Ombudsman thinks that no such agreement can be reached, the period specified by him in writing."(a) a period agreed between the Ombudsman, the listed authority and the person who made the complaint, or
(b) if the Ombudsman thinks that no such agreement can be reached, the period specified by him in writing."(a) a period agreed between the Ombudsman, the listed authority and the person who made the complaint, or"( ) The permitted period is—Page 11, line 31, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 22:
(b) if the Ombudsman thinks that no such agreement can be reached, the period specified by him in writing."(a) a period agreed between the Ombudsman, the listed authority and the person who made the complaint, or
(b) if the Ombudsman thinks that no such agreement can be reached, the period specified by him in writing."(a) a period agreed between the Ombudsman, the listed authority and the person who made the complaint, or"( ) The permitted period is—Page 11, line 31, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
Page 17, line 13, leave out "such persons as" and insert "the Ombudsman and any other persons"moved Amendment No. 24:
Page 17, line 13, leave out "such persons as" and insert "the Ombudsman and any other persons"Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
924"A tendency to go for a much more legalistic and formal approach to the whole question of investigations. I think this is dangerous territory. What Adam Peat said about this legislation is squarely in the tradition of British ombudsmen and it is exactly how I see it. It is based on the benefit of experience so it is an opportunity to improve and modernise but it is not a dramatic, radical shift away from that tradition which has worked very well for many years."923"The present situation is working well and there is nothing to be achieved by making a significant shift.""If there were a statutory enforcement provision, other than the naming and shaming approach, would this be a good thing?"922: My Lords, I am fully aware of the strength of feeling on this issue. As the
924"A tendency to go for a much more legalistic and formal approach to the whole question of investigations. I think this is dangerous territory. What Adam Peat said about this legislation is squarely in the tradition of British ombudsmen and it is exactly how I see it. It is based on the benefit of experience so it is an opportunity to improve and modernise but it is not a dramatic, radical shift away from that tradition which has worked very well for many years."923"The present situation is working well and there is nothing to be achieved by making a significant shift.""If there were a statutory enforcement provision, other than the naming and shaming approach, would this be a good thing?"922Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
927Page 11, line 28, leave out "an agreed" and insert "the permitted"moved Amendment No. 20:
927Page 11, line 28, leave out "an agreed" and insert "the permitted"Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
"( ) Before making an order under subsection (2), the Assembly must consult the Ombudsman."Page 5, line 22, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 13:
"( ) Before making an order under subsection (2), the Assembly must consult the Ombudsman."Page 5, line 22, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;"(2) The authorities are—
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;Page 35, line 2, at end insert—Page 34, line 38, after "Action" insert "taken by an authority specified in sub-paragraph (2) and"moved Amendments Nos. 14 and 15:
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;"(2) The authorities are—
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;
(d) an exclusion appeal panel."(c) the governing body of a community, foundation or voluntary school;(b) an admission appeal panel;(a) a local authority in Wales;Page 35, line 2, at end insert—Page 34, line 38, after "Action" insert "taken by an authority specified in sub-paragraph (2) and"Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
918: My Lords, as we have heard, the amendments to Clauses 17 and 18 that the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy, has tabled, reflect amendments that he tabled in Grand Committee. We had a full discussion at that time. The amendments would increase from three to four weeks the period for which a report under Clause 16 must be made available for inspection by the public.918Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I am particularly grateful to my noble friends Lord Prys-Davies and Lady Gale for saying that we should find another route to arrive where we all want to be and to have a good exchange between the Assembly and the two Houses of Parliament. We all agree on the matter; it is a question of how we achieve what we all want.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
916: My Lords, I shall speak to government Amendments Nos. 13, 14, 15 and 24 and respond to the interesting comments that have just been made.916Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
910: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, for sending me a copy of the research done by the Library on ombudsmen throughout the British Isles, if not the world. The noble Lord picked out the Scottish Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration to support his case. That is a matter for the Scottish Parliament. It would not be appropriate for me to make any comment. All I can say is that this Government consider a five-year term to be too short and renewability to be a factor casting doubt on the ombudsman's independence.910Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
"( ) The Secretary of State may recommend that a person be appointed to act as the Ombudsman only after consulting the Assembly."Page 28, line 4, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 6:
"( ) The Secretary of State may recommend that a person be appointed to act as the Ombudsman only after consulting the Assembly."Page 28, line 4, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, in Grand Committee we listened very carefully to the arguments put forward for making it a requirement that the Secretary of State consults the Assembly before recommending to Her Majesty the appointment of an ombudsman or acting ombudsman. On hearing these arguments, I undertook to bring forward amendments to that effect at Report.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
"(2) The Secretary of State may recommend that a person be appointed as the Ombudsman only after consulting the Assembly."Page 27, line 6, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 2:
"(2) The Secretary of State may recommend that a person be appointed as the Ombudsman only after consulting the Assembly."Page 27, line 6, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
Page 27, line 16, leave out "ten" and insert "seven"moved Amendment No. 3:
Page 27, line 16, leave out "ten" and insert "seven"Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
911"( ) A person is not disqualified under sub-paragraph (1) from being a member of the Assembly."Page 29, line 3, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 8:
911"( ) A person is not disqualified under sub-paragraph (1) from being a member of the Assembly."Page 29, line 3, at end insert—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, that is an extremely good question. I do not know the answer to it. Obviously, there must be an answer, which I hope is wending its way from the Box. 1 will return to that a little later.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, what kind of support can Her Majesty's Government give to President Abbas and his government in rebuilding the institutions to which she has just referred?Lord Ahmed
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Hogg of Cumbernauld
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that characteristically helpful and informative reply. Does she agree that as regards the Middle East as a region we have to be careful with our optimism, and that that optimism should be tempered with caution because experience in the past has shown that hopes for peace have been dashed by the actions of ruthless terrorist groups? Does she further agree that we should greet the Sharm-el-Sheikh discussions as offering the best opportunity for a negotiated settlement in the Middle East and that Her Majesty's Government should take positive action to assist the parties to resolve the matters of conflict?Lord Hogg of Cumbernauld
: My Lords, as the noble and learned Lord was in the loop, as he puts it, can he assist the House by outlining where the Government are on this legislation, which the Home Secretary announced would be brought forward as soon as possible? We have heard nothing in the two weeks or so since that announcement. Before we adjourn for this brief Recess, perhaps the noble and learned Lord could tell us when the legislation is to be brought forward.Lord Henley
944: My Lords, it seems to me that the Bill is another step in the process of trying to repair the damage done by the previous Conservative government's act of vandalism—that ill conceived and iniquitous Railways Act 1993, in which British Rail was privatised, and privatised in the most clumsy and destructive way imaginable. Of course, British Rail had become very rundown and was in dire need of capital investment. But for all its shortcomings. it was, at least, a fully integrated network. It was cheap and it was customer friendly.944The Earl of Glasgow
951"(and) put off travelling by rail, revenue would fall and operators would lose money"."The risk to train operators is that a cash-constrained ORR Periodic Review will lead to a less effective railway—closures, reduced line speeds, less reliability, etc. If this happens, passengers would be pushed"—"to promote the use of the railway network in Great Britain for the carriage of passengers and goods, and the development of that railway network, to the greatest extent that he considers …practicable".950949: My Lords, I am conscious that the conventions of the House do not allow me to congratulate the noble Earl, Lord Glasgow, on a maiden speech, but as someone who agreed with every single word of it I must say how pleased I am that he is back among us and contributing to debates on railways. I hope that there will be many other opportunities to hear the sort of wisdom that we heard from him this afternoon.951"(and) put off travelling by rail, revenue would fall and operators would lose money"."The risk to train operators is that a cash-constrained ORR Periodic Review will lead to a less effective railway—closures, reduced line speeds, less reliability, etc. If this happens, passengers would be pushed"—"to promote the use of the railway network in Great Britain for the carriage of passengers and goods, and the development of that railway network, to the greatest extent that he considers …practicable".950949Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: My Lords, I apologise for interrupting the noble Lord, but I think he means the Mayor of London and not the Lord Mayor of London, who does not run any trains anywhere.Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord for that outstandingly uninformative Answer. I wonder whether he could help us a little further. Given that he has reiterated his residual role, albeit an important one, as the guarantor of the rule of law and given that it was widely reported that the Attorney-General had expressed the view that the new anti-terrorism measures involving house arrest without trial for suspected terrorists might fall foul of the courts, while I accept that he cannot tell us what was said and to whom, can he confirm whether the Lord Chancellor was in the loop? Did the Lord Chancellor share the Attorney-General's concerns? Was the Lord Chancellor an active participant in that debate in government, or did he confine his role to a reassuring interview with David Frost?Lord Holme of Cheltenham
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Holme of Cheltenham
921: My Lords, I see this in the context of citizens' rights. I accept many of the points made by the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, about a listed
921Lord Livsey of Talgarth
912: My Lords, this is obviously a large improvement on what we considered in Committee, where it was clearly not on for the ombudsman to be a sitting Member of the Assembly. This has now rectified that. It still means, however, that the ombudsman can stand for election and would obviously have to resign if he or she became a Member of the Assembly.912Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, we strongly support the amendment, not only in this place, but in the other place, where a constituency MP might have a difficult situation being resolved by the ombudsman. It might affect a local authority, a school, or possibly the water company or something of that nature, on which the Member in the other place may have been working for a great length of time. The information ought to be made available to Members of both Houses for those sorts of reasons.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that answer, which I am sure will ultimately be resolved. Having stood in some elections myself, I know that one can find it extremely awkward to get time off—temporarily resigning from a position, and all kinds of things of that nature. I would not wish the ombudsman to be in a position where his salary was still funded by the Crown, which might assist him in his election campaign.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, I am pleased that the Minister has proposed a seven-year period of tenure. Having lived in Scotland for seven years and being married to a Scot, I am a great admirer of the Scottish legal system. In this instance, we have to look at the devolution settlement as it affects Wales. We do not have primary legislative powers and, at the present time, our situation is exposed.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, I thank the Minister and the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, for putting down these amendments. They are certainly desirable in terms of the appointment of the ombudsman. It is clear that the Assembly has to be involved, but it has to be involved in the correct sequence, and this appears to have been resolved in Amendment No. 2.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, I found the notes that the Minister sent around in relation to these matters very helpful, and I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, that we are going in the right direction.Lord Livsey of Talgarth
962961960959: My Lords, I declare an interest as a beneficiary of a railway trade union pension fund.962961960959Lord Rosser
: My Lords, will the Minister be kind enough to explain that point again? He keeps talking in acronyms. I do not know whether he is saying PTEs, PTAs or what; I do not understand them either.Earl Ferrers
948947946945: My Lords, the Railways Bill is an important piece of legislation. Even for those of us who use the railways infrequently, their future in Britain is of great importance. There is no doubt that, as the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, they should play a growing role in satisfying Britain's economic and transport needs.948947946945Lord Bhattacharyya
964963: My Lords, I shall speak on the part of the Bill concerning the passenger transport executives and the effect of the legislation on their powers. I suppose that my interest goes back to the very start of PTEs. A predecessor of mine in a previous incarnation, Alderman Andrew Cunningham, was chairman of the Tyne and Wear PTE. He was a brilliant chairman, and 1 now see that many of the markers that were put down at the time by that executive have come to fruition and form part of the successes that we see today.964963Lord Burlison
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that, unless the economic competitive climate is right in rural areas, no matter what the Government do people will not take up the initiative?Lord Taylor of Blackburn
940: My Lords, on the whole, the Green Party very much welcomes the Bill. I thank the Minister for his clear exposition of what is in it. I do not think he would expect me to let him get away with all the statements he made. He said at one time that no government could get away with not having a rail strategy. In 36 years in your Lordships' House I have seen governments, in one way or another, get away with not having strategies for practically everything that they should have had one for. This Government seem to be particularly good at getting away with things.940Lord Beaumont of Whitley
973972971: My Lords, I thank the Minister for introducing the Bill and for his extremely helpful briefing last week. I am not one to go over old ground, but he started by saying that privatisation assumed a decline in rail services. I want to make the point that it was in fact the opposite. Privatisation sought to address the long-term decline in spending on rail services and the need for growth and new investment. I hope that the Minister will agree that, since privatisation, passenger numbers have gone up, under both the Conservative government and the Minister's Government.973972971Viscount Astor
: My Lords, there certainly seems to be no evidence that it will happen, but if the noble Lord, with his expertise in freight, can show me some evidence, I shall be happy to look at it.Viscount Astor
: My Lords, I am grateful for the noble Lord's intervention. He must be pleased about that increase, but the question is whether it can be sustained. We will have to look at that.Viscount Astor
: My Lords, whoever gives legal advice to the Government, whether it is the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor or the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General, should not disclosure of that advice be subject to the public interest test and not to absolute exemption under the Freedom of Information Act, as it is now? After all, it is we as taxpayers who have paid for that advice.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I shall not move Amendment No. 21. The Government have explained clearly that Amendments Nos. 20 and 22 will achieve the objective that we were after in Committee. I am glad to say that the Government have seen the light and accepted the substance of our amendments in Committee. They have tabled an excellent pair of amendments that achieve our purpose.Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for saying a few words about Amendments Nos. 23 and 26, to which I neglected to speak—perhaps in my enthusiasm for Amendment No. 19. I am also grateful to other noble Lords who participated in the debate.Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I am perfectly content that the government amendments achieve the purposes behind Amendments Nos. 12 and 25. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I am very grateful for the support for the spirit of these amendments expressed by the noble Lords who have spoken, and to the Minister for his concluding remarks and further assurances. I accept that to make this request a statutory requirement would be excessive. In the belief that nevertheless the substance of the amendment, and the desire of Members of your Lordships' House and the other place to know the content of annual and other reports produced by the ombudsman, have been taken on board, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Roberts of Conwy
"after consultation with the Ombudsman"Page 5, line 22, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 12:
"after consultation with the Ombudsman"Page 5, line 22, at end insert—Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I am content with the assurance given by the Minister. I have now found the copy of a letter sent by the Minister to the noble Lord, Lord Prys-Davies, where he states that this means that if the ombudsman considered that in a particular case, or generally, reports should be made available for more than three weeks, he could issue directions to that effect. He would of course have to exercise that power reasonably. Having read that into the record, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Roberts of Conwy
Official Report,"that the noble Lord, Lord Livsey, is shaking his head".—[Official Report,"The Government do not believe that it is either necessary or desirable to give powers to the ombudsman to enforce his recommendations through any of the methods envisaged in these amendments. The Government are satisfied that the naming and shaming of listed authorities, including the Assembly, is effective in ensuring that the ombudsman's recommendations are acted upon. This is reinforced by the excellent record of authorities in Wales when it comes to complying with the existing Welsh ombudsman's recommendations. However, I see"—919(2) The condition is that the listed authority has wilfully disregarded his report without lawful excuse."(1) If the ombudsman is satisfied that the condition in subsection (2) is met in relation to a listed authority, he may issue a certificate to that effect to the High Court.
(2) The condition is that the listed authority has wilfully disregarded his report without lawful excuse."(1) If the ombudsman is satisfied that the condition in subsection (2) is met in relation to a listed authority, he may issue a certificate to that effect to the High Court."NON-ACTION FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF A REPORTAfter Clause 19, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 19:
Official Report,"that the noble Lord, Lord Livsey, is shaking his head".—[Official Report,"The Government do not believe that it is either necessary or desirable to give powers to the ombudsman to enforce his recommendations through any of the methods envisaged in these amendments. The Government are satisfied that the naming and shaming of listed authorities, including the Assembly, is effective in ensuring that the ombudsman's recommendations are acted upon. This is reinforced by the excellent record of authorities in Wales when it comes to complying with the existing Welsh ombudsman's recommendations. However, I see"—919(2) The condition is that the listed authority has wilfully disregarded his report without lawful excuse."(1) If the ombudsman is satisfied that the condition in subsection (2) is met in relation to a listed authority, he may issue a certificate to that effect to the High Court.
(2) The condition is that the listed authority has wilfully disregarded his report without lawful excuse."(1) If the ombudsman is satisfied that the condition in subsection (2) is met in relation to a listed authority, he may issue a certificate to that effect to the High Court."NON-ACTION FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF A REPORTAfter Clause 19, insert the following new clause—Lord Roberts of Conwy
Page 9, line 24, leave out "three- and insert "four"moved Amendment No. 16:
Page 9, line 24, leave out "three- and insert "four"Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, perhaps I may speak across the noble Lord on his first point concerning the reference to the Assembly. There is an entire procedure here for the ombudsman to deal with a listed authority. He produces a report and, in certain circumstances, he can go further and produce an additional special report. The Assembly does not really come into it except where the complaint is against the Assembly itself as a corporate body. In the case of another listed authority—Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, may I finish?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, as I have already indicated, I am totally satisfied with the Government's amendment. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Roberts of Conwy
909"by reason of special circumstances, such reappointment is desirable in the public interest".: My Lords, I shall speak to Amendments Nos. 4 and 5. Since Committee, I have been able to do a little more research into ombudsmen's appointments across the United Kingdom, with the assistance of the Library. Generally speaking, they are appointed for no fixed term and, subject to good behaviour, continue until retirement at 65 or voluntary resignation. The basic pattern appears to have been set by the appointment of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration under the 1967 Act.909"by reason of special circumstances, such reappointment is desirable in the public interest".Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I tabled Amendment No. 7 in the wake of my Amendment No. 4 setting a renewable five-year term of appointment. Amendment No. 7 would allow the ombudsman to be an acting ombudsman where there was a hiatus between his first five-year appointment and the second. Nevertheless, in the context of the improved Bill, I feel that the amendment is superfluous and I shall not be moving it.Lord Roberts of Conwy
907Page 27, line 6, at end insert "after prior consultation with the Assembly"moved Amendment No. 1:
907Page 27, line 6, at end insert "after prior consultation with the Assembly"Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I am delighted to see that the Minister has put his name to Amendment No. 9, which proposes to leave out sub-paragraph (2). That subsection allows the Assembly to resolve that the disqualification of the ombudsman from being an Assembly Member can be disregarded.Lord Roberts of Conwy
moved Amendment No. 9:Lord Roberts of Conwy
913Page 31, line 21, after "Assembly" insert "and both Houses of Parliament for their information only"moved Amendment No. 10:
913Page 31, line 21, after "Assembly" insert "and both Houses of Parliament for their information only"Lord Roberts of Conwy
914: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend Lord Prys-Davies. It is true that we have difficulties in obtaining copies of documents that we want from the Welsh Assembly, though it is not impossible. There are ways in which to get those documents, but you have to be proactive. When Rhodri Morgan, the First Minister, met noble Lords not long ago, we told him of our problems, and he was very receptive and said that he would be willing to look at the matter. Perhaps we should pursue the matter
914Baroness Gale
905: My Lords, this has been an historic agreement, welcomed by Members all around the House and by the countries involved. As everyone knows, Hamas announced within a few minutes of the agreement being made that it would not
905Baroness Miller of Hendon
"the SBS is a bureaucratic waste of time and money-.: My Lords, what is the Government's response to the report by the Small Business Network—the very people that the Small Business Service is supposed to help? The report states that,
"the SBS is a bureaucratic waste of time and money-.Baroness Miller of Hendon
: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend Lord Filkin, I beg to move the Motion standing in his name on the Order Paper.Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has raised what is probably the most important question here. Let us be clear: Hamas is meeting today with Abu Mazen—President Abbas—who is also meeting with Hezbollah. Hamas has not ruled out participating in a ceasefire altogether; it said that it would not be bound by it until it had had the opportunity to discuss it with the new Palestinian president. So let us hope that it reaches the right decision today. We must always keep at the back of our minds the possibility that the enemies of this process—and they will be numerous, on both sides—will at some point try to perpetrate a terrorist outrage in order to provoke a response. That is the history of recent years. I have said to our colleagues in the Middle East that we have to think about how that sort of crisis is handled. It is enormously important, in this period of relative quiet, to think through what should be done if that sort of horror comes to pass and the ways in which people will respond. I think that there is an opportunity to do some forward planning on the matter.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, we have been working very hard on these issues for well over a year now. We have worked hard on the question of the institutions around security. But I want to stress that this is not only a question of security as it affects the borders and the abutting of the state of Israel: it is also the all-important question of internal security within a future state of Palestine. It is a question of law and order. It is all very well calling on the Palestinians to improve their security, but they need the capacity to do so. In order to have that capacity, they must have support, and that is what we have been giving over the past year or so.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for what he said about the outcome of Sharm el-Sheikh. I am very glad that his assessment is so like my own. I agree with him, too, that it is very important that it was, very obviously, a meeting between two leaders who were themselves committed without necessarily having the supporting cast there. I took that as a positive indication.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, while acknowledging that this is an excellent step very much in the right direction, we have to temper that with realism about the amount of ground and the difficulties that still lie ahead. It has taken enormous courage on the side of both the Israeli and Palestinian leaderships to go forward together as they did at Sharm el-Sheikh. Like my noble friend, I have no illusions that there will be many enemies of this process who will want to do everything they can to disrupt it. Certainly we have now got the best chance for peace that we are likely to see for a number of years. For our part, the United Kingdom Government have a responsibility, with our partners in the quartet, to do what we can to help the process. Of course, the London meeting with the Palestinians is an important part of what we are trying to do.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the announcement of a ceasefire following Tuesday's meeting between Prime Minister Sharon and President Abbas in Sharm el-Sheikh is excellent news. I pay tribute to Prime Minister Sharon and President Abbas for their courage in seizing this opportunity not only to improve the security situation but also to commit themselves to the road map. While no one should underestimate the difficulties ahead, this is an important step. We hope that the London meeting on 1 March will build on the forward momentum.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, I can give an unequivocal assurance to my noble friend Lord Janner that we will do everything we can to support both sides in that endeavour. At Sharm el-Sheikh this week, the Palestinians undertook to do everything they can to stop the attacks against Israelis everywhere. I indicated that there were meetings going on today with Hamas and Islamic Jihad, who have said that they were unwilling to make such a commitment before they saw President Abbas today. For their side, the Israelis have talked about stopping all military activities against the Palestinians, prisoner release and their commitment to the road map—which, your Lordships will recall, states that in phase one there should be a freezing of all settlement activity.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, we have had a number of meetings with Palestinians here in London over the past few days—most recently at the beginning of this week with Salem Fayed, who is taking a leading role on this issue. President Abbas will decide in the light of the meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh—as I am sure your Lordships are aware, other important meetings are going on in the Palestinian Authority areas today—who should attend the London meeting. As soon as we have any definitive news, it will be made available. We have received a very positive response from a number of countries and delegations to come to London.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, the noble Lords, Lord Prys-Davies and Lord Livsey, have put their finger on it in terms of the population in Wales. They need to have faith that an ombudsman's report will have teeth. The amendment before us now is a means of providing that reassurance to those who may be aggrieved and who may feel that the lives of themselves or others are potentially in danger through inactivity. By the time the ombudsman gets involved the situation almost certainly will be potentially quite serious. The thought of an ombudsman's report gathering dust will bring the whole ombudsman system into disrepute. We have to consider very carefully any mechanism to ensure that no ombudsman's report can be ignored by the authority to which it relates.Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that there is still huge potential to be exploited from our membership of the single market, especially by business? Can he estimate the benefits that have accrued to average families living in the United Kingdom as a result of our membership of the single market?Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
: My Lords, unfortunately there is a procedure here too. At this stage, the noble Lord can intervene to make a single point of clarification but at the end of the debate, after the Minister has spoken, the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy, and only the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy, may speak. However, I think that we are in danger of entering a slight dialogue and noble Lords who are speaking seem to be very keen on accurate procedure.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords—Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
903: My Lords, the meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh is clearly very welcome and one hopes that it is a real breakthrough. As regards the London conference to which the Minister has just referred, can she confirm whether President Abbas will be willing to attend given that the Israelis will not be there? Does
903Baroness Northover
: My Lords, with the decline of agriculture and farming in rural communities, what is the Small Business Service doing to encourage people to open businesses in order to keep the rural communities intact?The Countess of Mar
970969968: My Lords, the unavoidable absence of my noble friend Lord Bradshaw has given me the welcome opportunity to participate in the debate today.970969968Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, can the Chairman of Committees help the House a little further by naming the four Peers serving on the Joint Committee on Security, or is that secret?Lord Berkeley
: Oh!Noble Lords
(Baroness Amos.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day): My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
997"the integrity of the register"?"the integrity of the register": My Lords, I am glad to follow my noble friend Lady Park of Monmouth, if I may, as no one else has risen. She has shot a number of foxes that I would have wished to have a go at myself.997"the integrity of the register"?"the integrity of the register"Lord Patten
: My Lords, the names of the noble Baronesses are on Amendment No. 47.The Deputy Speaker (Lord Lyell)
: My Lords, I confirm that we are discussing Amendment No. 47.The Deputy Speaker
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Dubs
: My Lords, I am not sure what comment to make about that Answer. I did not understand a word of what my noble friend said—or, at least, in so far as I understood it, it belies reality. Is he aware that the result of an attempt to book tickets a few days ago on the West Coast Main Line was that the railway company said on the phone that it was not taking bookings; that the station refused to take bookings; and that it was possible to make a booking on the Internet, only to discover after the event that there were no reserved seats because it was not sure whether the train would run at the time stated? Is he aware that the result is that people who want to buy reasonably economic tickets are having to pay at the last minute the very highest prices and that people with disabilities can hardly make plans to travel at all? Is not this an absolute shambles?Lord Dubs
(Lord Grocott.)Clauses 53 to 57.—(Lord Grocott.)Schedule 5,Clauses 51 and 52,Schedule 4,Clauses 35 to 50,Schedule 3,Clauses 17 to 34,Schedule 2,Clauses 8 to 16,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 7,
(Lord Grocott.)Clauses 53 to 57.—(Lord Grocott.)Schedule 5,Clauses 51 and 52,Schedule 4,Clauses 35 to 50,Schedule 3,Clauses 17 to 34,Schedule 2,Clauses 8 to 16,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 7,: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in the name of my noble and learned friend Lord Goldsmith on the Order Paper.(Lord Grocott.)Clauses 53 to 57.—(Lord Grocott.)Schedule 5,Clauses 51 and 52,Schedule 4,Clauses 35 to 50,Schedule 3,Clauses 17 to 34,Schedule 2,Clauses 8 to 16,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 7,
(Lord Grocott.)Clauses 53 to 57.—(Lord Grocott.)Schedule 5,Clauses 51 and 52,Schedule 4,Clauses 35 to 50,Schedule 3,Clauses 17 to 34,Schedule 2,Clauses 8 to 16,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 7,Lord Grocott
: My Lords, I am sorry that my noble friend did not understand the Answer; perhaps it was not as explicit as it might have been. The position is straightforward: we want Network Rail and its engineering works to hand over to train operating companies access to the rail 12 weeks in advance so that the companies can take bookings 12 weeks in advance. That was the custom in the past. It was ruined by the Hatfield disaster and we have been working since that time, through the renewal of the track and engineering works, to get back to the 12-week period. The good news is that we will be on target with the 12-week period in September of this year. The bad news, as my noble friend has accurately reflected, is that the period before Easter, which we hoped would be six weeks, is, for four operating companies, four weeks or less.Lord Davies of Oldham
985: My Lords, I agree with the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord, save one. The position is not obscure: the Office of Rail Regulation has told Network Rail, which has responsibility for engineering works on the track, that it is to meet the schedule of 12 weeks' compliance by September of this
985Lord Davies of Oldham
984: My Lords. in 2004, the Office of Rail Regulation required Network Rail to
984Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I note the noble Lord's movement in his contribution from independent to old Labour. It was not unknown, under the former ownership of British Rail, for there to be difficulties with train timetables.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, my noble friend mentioned First Great Western, which is opening bookings for Good Friday this coming Friday—four weeks in advance—and for Easter Saturday to the following Friday on Tuesday 8 March, giving a two-week margin. It was called in with other train operators because the Office of Rail Regulation does not consider this to be remotely satisfactory. That is why it has been made quite clear to the industry that compliance must be achieved by September.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, we have obviously had enormous strategic problems with the railways. The whole House will recognise that there are major reasons for that. However, I think that my noble friend will recognise that it is not in the interests of train operating companies to make the purchase of tickets difficult. Recently there has been great difficulty in booking tickets in advance and in making reservations, and that is to be deplored. The Office of Rail Regulation has made it absolutely clear that that is not to continue. The train operating companies are turning away good customers if they are not providing an adequate ticket reservation process, and it is in their interests eventually to do so.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I am always impressed by the richness of experience in your Lordships' House. At times, that can be quite helpful at the Dispatch Box.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the whole purpose of the meeting at the Office of Rail Regulation last week was to make it clear that improvements were necessary. However, I sought to say in my original, somewhat obscure—although technically accurate—Answer that the biggest single problem for the train operating companies is access to the track in sufficient time. That difficulty relates to the whole issue of Network Rail and the maintenance and upkeep of the track.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, is there not an argument for bringing Virgin into the department and asking whether, in the light of immense public concern nationally, it can devise an interim system to enable people to buy cheap tickets?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, we have conceded a lot and I presume that the negotiations with the Commons were very tough. What did we get in return from the Commons?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, who serves on the Joint Committee? Are any Peers members of it, and were any Peers actively consulted during the Recess?Lord Campbell-Savours
 asked the Chairman of Committees:Lord Campbell-Savours
101510141013: My Lords, in standing for the first time to speak on Report I would like to thank those Members who have acknowledged that the Government have been listening hard in our earlier debates on this important area. There are those who say that it is always a mistake for Ministers to listen to the House of Lords and give its Members what they want because they will only ask for more. I have not been of that opinion until now, but the House could persuade me otherwise.101510141013The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
1016: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Perry, for giving way. It is fundamental to the
1016Lord Filkin
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, I shall respond to two of her specific probing questions. First, she was concerned that there would not be a process whereby a school could flag up things until it was too late. As part of the new system, there will be a hotline for schools to ring a separate senior inspector to bring any issues immediately to his attention. That directly addresses the issue of the behaviour as opposed to the qualifications and experience of inspectors.Lord Filkin
(2B) Any arrangements which provide for assistance by persons who are not members of the Chief Inspector's staff must be made on terms that require the person with whom the arrangements are made to secure compliance with any requirements that are from time to time published under sub-paragraph (2A)."(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, and
(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, and"(2A) The Chief Inspector must publish in such manner as he thinks fit, and may from time to time revise, a statement of—
(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, and
(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, andPage 67, line 14, at end insert—moved Amendment No.3:
(2B) Any arrangements which provide for assistance by persons who are not members of the Chief Inspector's staff must be made on terms that require the person with whom the arrangements are made to secure compliance with any requirements that are from time to time published under sub-paragraph (2A)."(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, and
(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, and"(2A) The Chief Inspector must publish in such manner as he thinks fit, and may from time to time revise, a statement of—
(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, and
(b) the standards that such additional inspectors are to be required to meet in the exercise of their functions.(a) the qualifications or experience (or both) that are to be required of additional inspectors who are not members of his staff, andPage 67, line 14, at end insert—Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I do not particularly want to make a comment at this point. I am still reflecting with surprise on what happened on the previous amendment. However, of course we shall consider the conformity of the Bill at the end of the Report stage.Lord Filkin
1023Every Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child Matters: My Lords, the noble Baronesses, Lady Walmsley and Lady Sharp, are seeking to ensure that inspectors have the necessary specialist knowledge to conduct inspections, particularly in relation to children's affairs as defined in the Children Act 2004.1023Every Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child MattersEvery Child MattersLord Filkin
Page 67, leave out lines 15 to 17.moved Amendment No. 6:
Page 67, leave out lines 15 to 17.Lord Filkin
Page 67, leave out lines 34 and 35.moved Amendment No. 8:
Page 67, leave out lines 34 and 35.Lord Filkin
10251024Page 68, line 5, at beginning insert "Subject to sub-paragraph (3)"moved Amendment No. 9:
10251024Page 68, line 5, at beginning insert "Subject to sub-paragraph (3)"Lord Filkin
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, or
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, or"(3) The making of any report of an inspection of a school under section 5 which states the opinion that special measures are required to be taken in relation to the school must be personally authorised by
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, or
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, orPage 68, line 13, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 10:
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, or
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, or"(3) The making of any report of an inspection of a school under section 5 which states the opinion that special measures are required to be taken in relation to the school must be personally authorised by
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, or
(b) one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England who is authorised by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of this sub-paragraph."(a) the Chief Inspector, orPage 68, line 13, at end insert—Lord Filkin
1027: My Lords, I shall respond to what we thought the noble Baroness, Lady Perry, meant, as I think she would wish.1027Lord Filkin
1082"additional support is required by or under the direction of the local education authority".: My Lords, I was glad that the noble Baroness accepted that it was not right to have just one category. I thought that she had been ingenious in coming up with two categories of additional support. But that is probably as far as we shall meet on this.1082"additional support is required by or under the direction of the local education authority".Lord Filkin
(b) he must state his opinion in the report of the inspection."(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,
(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,(a) he must without delay give a notice in writing, stating that the case falls within paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1)—
(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,
(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,1083(1B) lf, after complying with subsection (1A), the Chief Inspector is of the opinion that the case falls within paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1)—(b) consider any comments on the draft that are made to him within the prescribed period by the governing body or proprietor, as the case may be.(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and
(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and(a) send a draft of the report of the inspection—
(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and
(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and(1A) The Chief Inspector must—Page 7, line 11, leave out subsections (2) and (3) and insert—"Page 7. line 10, leave out "(2) and (3)" and insert "(1A) and (1B)"moved Amendments Nos. 36 and 37:
(b) he must state his opinion in the report of the inspection."(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,
(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,(a) he must without delay give a notice in writing, stating that the case falls within paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1)—
(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,
(iii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(ii) in the case of a maintained school, to the local education authority, and(i) to the Secretary of State,1083(1B) lf, after complying with subsection (1A), the Chief Inspector is of the opinion that the case falls within paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1)—(b) consider any comments on the draft that are made to him within the prescribed period by the governing body or proprietor, as the case may be.(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and
(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and(a) send a draft of the report of the inspection—
(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and
(ii) in the case of any other school, to the proprietor of the school, and(i) in the case of a maintained school, to the governing body, and(1A) The Chief Inspector must—Page 7, line 11, leave out subsections (2) and (3) and insert—"Page 7. line 10, leave out "(2) and (3)" and insert "(1A) and (1B)"Lord Filkin
Page 7, line 24, leave out "(3)" and insert "(1B)(b)".moved Amendment No. 40:
Page 7, line 24, leave out "(3)" and insert "(1B)(b)".Lord Filkin
1084: My Lords, I find it extremely unfair to have my flexibility on one part of the Bill prayed against me on another. But let us put that to one side.1084Lord Filkin
107510741073: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, did a better job than I could to signal the considerable number of different points at which the Government have moved to try to ensure that processes exist to enable schools which have been inspected to be a participant in the process of trying to ensure that they believe that the judgments and conclusions are fair, without allowing them to go as far as negotiating judgments, which clearly cannot happen.107510741073Lord Filkin
Page 5, line 9, after first "the" insert "registered"moved Amendment No. 27:
Page 5, line 9, after first "the" insert "registered"Lord Filkin
"(1A) Any notification given under subsection (1)(a) must include a statement, in a form approved by the Chief Inspector, inviting the registered parents of registered pupils to inform the Chief Inspector of their views on matters relating to the school."moved Amendment No. 30:
Page 5, line 11. at end insert—
"(1A) Any notification given under subsection (1)(a) must include a statement, in a form approved by the Chief Inspector, inviting the registered parents of registered pupils to inform the Chief Inspector of their views on matters relating to the school."Lord Filkin
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,In conducting an inspection of a school under section 5, the matters to which the Chief Inspector must have regard include any views expressed to him by any of the following persons—
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,"DUTY TO HAVE REGARD TO VIEWS OF CERTAIN PERSONSAfter Clause 6, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 32:
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,In conducting an inspection of a school under section 5, the matters to which the Chief Inspector must have regard include any views expressed to him by any of the following persons—
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,
(g) the registered parents of registered pupils."(f) registered pupils at the school, and(e) members of the staff of the school,(d) any person prescribed for the purposes of section 6(1)(b),(c) in the case of any other school, the proprietor of the school,(b) in the case of a maintained school, the governing body,(a) the head teacher,"DUTY TO HAVE REGARD TO VIEWS OF CERTAIN PERSONSAfter Clause 6, insert the following new clause—Lord Filkin
"the educational standards achieved in schools",10471046: My Lords, I hope that I always give nice, friendly replies. As noble Lords would expect me to say, I thought that the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, put his finger on it. Behaviour, discipline and attendance are fundamental to educational attainment and the achievement of the five outcomes. If we thought for a second that we would improve those by one jot by underlining what is already happening, we would do so, but I am afraid that, irrespective of the advice that one receives from civil servants, Ministers should not legislate when they think a provision otiose or that it does not serve the purpose. That would be kidding the House; that would be fooling the House."the educational standards achieved in schools",10471046Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I want to respond to the noble Baroness—briefly, because I do not think we have a meeting of minds on this.Lord Filkin
1055"has clear, well-documented procedures for assuring pupils' well-being and health and safety when in the school's care".1054Every Child Matters: Change for Children in Schools: My Lords, I shall speak to Amendments Nos. 15, 25, 26, 50 and 52 together, although as I signalled earlier I do not necessarily see that some of the later amendments are consequential on the first.1055"has clear, well-documented procedures for assuring pupils' well-being and health and safety when in the school's care".1054Every Child Matters: Change for Children in SchoolsLord Filkin
10661065: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, and my noble friend Lady Massey
10661065Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I beg to move that consideration on Report be now adjourned.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, can the Minister tell the House whether any inquiries into the likely effect were made before these increases were introduced and whether any information was sought from universities on their view of the impact on their student intake?Lord Hannay of Chiswick
1000"cannot be sure—because of the elector's failure to submit the canvass form, or to include on that form all the personal identifiers—that the elector is still resident at the same address"."the name of an elector who was registered in the previous version of that register even though the CEO"—999: My Lords, I too thank the noble Baroness for explaining the requirements of the Bill. However, like previous speakers, I was here when we dealt with the Electoral Fraud (Northern Ireland) Act 2002. The object of that exercise was to clean up the electoral register. It seems to me that the object of this Bill is to make the register less clean. That cannot be right.
1000"cannot be sure—because of the elector's failure to submit the canvass form, or to include on that form all the personal identifiers—that the elector is still resident at the same address"."the name of an elector who was registered in the previous version of that register even though the CEO"—999Lord Shutt of Greetland
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that there is another element to the policy expressed by the noble Lord, Lord Marlesford? If people are to move to the north and other places, they need jobs. Does not that indicate that the Government really need to examine their industrial policy as well as their housing policy, so that employment is better distributed throughout the country? That used to be Labour Party policy at one time.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, would not all these problems and many others be solved if we returned to a fully integrated railway system under public control? Was not that what the Labour Party promised before the general election of nineteen forty—Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: I meant 1997, my Lords—I go back a long way.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
981: My Lords, did the four Members of the House of Lords serving on the
981Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, I wish to associate the Cross-Bench Peers with these tributes to the noble Lord, Lord Callaghan, on this milestone in his life. It is clear that his contribution to the national life is very well known. I believe that all Peers, whether of a party or of none, share an appreciation of his work. The noble Lord embodies two special features of this House: high quality and longevity.Lord Williamson of Horton
: My Lords, would it not kill two birds with one stone if the Office of Rail Regulation was relocated to the northern regions?Lord Avebury
Birth to three matters1011: My Lords, I wish to press the Minister on the inspection of early-years provision. As he will be aware, many providers in this area are
Birth to three matters1011The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, I declare an interest as one of several Members of the House who are trustees of the Cambridge Commonwealth and Overseas Trusts. I am sure the Minister is aware of the overseas research scholarship schemes—recently extended, I am glad to say—financed by the Government, which are designed to compete head-to-head with other countries in attracting to our universities some the best students in the world. Is it not, to say the least, unwise to announce an increase of 100 per cent in the leave-to-remain charge for graduate students going on to postgraduate qualifications almost at the same time as the United States is announcing substantial relaxations in its visa requirements?Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, I do not think they did, but I hope that the car parking situation will improve.The Chairman of Committees
Hansard.: My Lords, as I have said, who they are is public knowledge: they were set out in a Written Answer in Hansard.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, provided that the relevant committees give their approval to the design proposed for the new reception and security building to be located near the entrance to Westminster Hall, I am told that construction could start in around 11 months' time and should be completed by October of next year.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, membership of the Joint Committee was recently made public for the first time, and I believe that four Peers serve on it.The Chairman of Committees
: In a word, my Lords, they do not add to the beauty of one of the "world squares"; neither, unfortunately, do the concrete blocks now in place nor the demonstration in Parliament Square. No doubt all such matters will he dealt with.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, the Joint Committee on Security is a Joint Committee of both Houses. I repeat that four Members of this House serve on it, along with a similar number of Members from the House of Commons. That committee initially approved the proposals recommended by the joint review of security. The recommendations of the joint review of security were endorsed by the House Committee of this House.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, as I have said, this is only a temporary facility until the new visitor and reception centre is complete. The planned date for opening the new centre is October 2006, at which time the Commons will accommodate the entire facility on their own territory. However, it is clear that there is nowhere else to put the temporary structure.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, car parking is a critical issue. The temporary buildings occupy only three car parking spaces. However, many spaces are available in the Abingdon Street car park, a review of which is currently taking place.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, the joint review of security conducted by the Security Service and the Metropolitan Police recommended that the public search point be moved outside the Palace until the new reception and security building was constructed. The present temporary buildings are located in the only place suitable for this purpose. The recommendation was part of the security report which was agreed by the Joint Committee on Security and endorsed by the House Committee.The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
: My Lords, the Question is valid because these buildings have been put up in our car park. That seems to be the principal problem: they are occupying three car parking spaces, which are clearly at a premium.The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, I am sorry to pursue this a little further, but there is a slight problem. Many Members on these Benches are totally unclear about what consultations actually took place between the other place and this House. Did the proposals go to the committees of this House? Were they consulted, along with the usual channels? How did the consultation take place?Lord Richard
: My Lords, has the Minister taken into account the pressure on landfill sites from all this demolition—of 10,000 houses, I believe he said—particularly with regard to contaminated waste?The Earl of Courtown
: My Lords, is the temporary date of October 2006 going to be as temporary as that for the Tea Room at the other end of the Corridor, which has been on loan to the Commons since the 1920s?Viscount Simon
990: My Lords, may I ask my noble friend why it has been found necessary to time limit this important and indeed historic new debate in the Moses
990Lord Barnett
: My Lords, I am sure that that suggestion will be very carefully taken on board.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I believe that our Government have an enviable track record in conserving the countryside. After all, it was our Government who raised the threshold in increasing to 60 per cent the percentage of land for development that must be brownfield sites. Our Government also instituted a policy establishing two major national parks in the south. I believe that that is a fair statement of our intent with regard to conservation, care and concern about the countryside. I understand the noble Lord's point about ensuring that there is not excessive demand for space for housing in the south, but we have to have a balanced programme. That is exactly what this Government have.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, without question, the Lyons review makes a very important contribution. I am confident that those proposals, when considered and responded to in detail, will provide some answers to some of the problems that we have discussed this afternoon.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, we are talking about demolishing houses. I am not sure how contaminated the bricks and mortar might be that would go to landfill sites, but I know that in some of the demolition programmes undertaken nationally there is an element of recycling.Lord Bassam of Brighton
989: My Lords, of course, the Government have a policy to ensure that all regions share in our prosperity. It is for that reason that we have actively supported the Northern Way proposals in that regard. We recognise the importance of
989Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, given that the noble Lord did indeed represent Cumbernauld so well for so many years, it would be a travesty of socialism if Cumbernauld was ever to be demolished.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I am obviously aware of the argument about VAT, but I do not believe that that is the major contributory factor to the fact that some houses have fallen so badly into disrepair through neglect and abandonment. There needs to be, in part, a demolition programme. I am sure that the noble Baroness would accept that there are homes that need to be demolished, due to their condition. But it is also important that the Government have a refurbishment and growth strategy.Lord Bassam of Brighton
987: My Lords, it is a fact that parts of the north and the Midlands are suffering from housing low demand and abandonment. New homes have been built in the north faster than the growth in the number of households. Attracting jobs and people to these places means offering homes that meet people's needs and aspirations. It is not sensible,
987Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, the Government of course have a national housing strategy. I do not entirely share the noble Baroness's view of the world. It is a fact that in some areas it is important to demolish properties. As it happens, up to March 2006 we are funding some 10,000 demolitions in the north, in the Pathfinder areas, compared with some 20,000 units that we are funding for refurbishment. So there is far more refurbishment being undertaken than demolition, but it has to be part of a balanced package.Lord Bassam of Brighton
983: My Lords, will my noble friend undertake to examine the point that visas for overseas students ought to be made specific to an educational establishment? I recognise that students may want to change the place at which they undertake their studies
983Lord Tomlinson
980: My Lords, is the Chairman of Committees aware that about only three years ago we spent a vast sum of money resurfacing the whole of that outside square because we had been advised that it is one
980Lord Tomlinson
998: My Lords, if I have infringed the protocols of the House I apologise to your Lordships. The Bill was drawn to our attention only on the day when the House went into recess and was brought to the House the very moment we returned from recess. I suggest that that is not untypical of the way in which Northern Ireland business is handled by this Government. I deeply resent it.998Lord Maginnis of Drumglass
: My Lords, throughout the debates I have been watching this football match from the touch line. I notice that there has been, not exactly a goal on either side, but some convergence, if I might move to a slightly different image. At this stage it is perhaps incumbent on the Government to explain why they would resist the amendment, as it seems to make a great deal of sense.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, do the Government recognise a pretty fundamental fact—that if the beauty of England is to be handed on to future generations and safeguarded as it has been by successive governments, it will not be possible to provide all the houses in southern England that people might prefer to have? If houses are available in other parts of the country, market forces will ensure that people go where houses are available, and our countryside in the south, which is under new and serious threat, will be protected.Lord Marlesford
988Times,: My Lords, I must first declare an interest. In another place I had the great honour of representing the socialist triumph of Cumbernauld. Has my noble friend the Minister seen today's 988Times,Lord Hogg of Cumbernauld
"arrange for such persons as he thinks fit"1010: My Lords, I support the amendments. I associate myself fully with the comments of my noble friend Lady Perry of Southwark, and agree with those made by the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, and the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland."arrange for such persons as he thinks fit"1010Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, we have just passed Amendment No. 2 which will have an effect on this government amendment. I suspect that a composite amendment will now have to be brought forward. Would the Minister like to comment on that? Obviously, the amendment on the Marshalled List was written before the House agreed to the previous amendment.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, we have had some interesting debates in this House. I thank the Minister and the Government for responding to the detailed discussions in Committee and to the representations from teachers and schools. They feared that they would not have the chance to make representations at the right time, so I thank the Government for the amendments, which add greatly to the Bill. I also thank everyone who contributed to the debate in Committee.Lord Hanningfield
1056: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply, parts of which were helpful. However, there should be more duty on schools to play their full part under Children Act provisions. I accept the joint reviews, and I am supportive of them, but I hope that they will identify progress as regards both the social support of children and the education of children.1056Lord Hanningfield
1049: My Lords, it has been an interesting debate. I am going to use some of my experience as, apart from being on the Front Bench here, I am leader of the authority with the most schools and most pupils in the whole country—600 schools.1049Lord Hanningfield
A New Relationship with SchoolsEvery Child Matters"( ) The Chief Inspector must keep under review the contribution made by schools in England to working with the children's services authority for the area in which the school is situated and the authority's relevant partners to improve the well-being of children and relevant young people within the authority's area."Page 2, line 24, at end insert—
"( ) The Chief Inspector must keep under review the contribution made by schools in England to working with the children's services authority for the area in which the school is situated and the authority's relevant partners to improve the well-being of children and relevant young people within the authority's area."moved Amendment No. 15:
A New Relationship with SchoolsEvery Child Matters"( ) The Chief Inspector must keep under review the contribution made by schools in England to working with the children's services authority for the area in which the school is situated and the authority's relevant partners to improve the well-being of children and relevant young people within the authority's area."Page 2, line 24, at end insert—
"( ) The Chief Inspector must keep under review the contribution made by schools in England to working with the children's services authority for the area in which the school is situated and the authority's relevant partners to improve the well-being of children and relevant young people within the authority's area."Lord Hanningfield
1041"(g) the behaviour and discipline of pupils and levels of truancy in those schools."Page 2, line 24, at end insert—
"(g) the behaviour and discipline of pupils and levels of truancy in those schools."moved Amendment No. 14:
1041"(g) the behaviour and discipline of pupils and levels of truancy in those schools."Page 2, line 24, at end insert—
"(g) the behaviour and discipline of pupils and levels of truancy in those schools."Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I support the spirit of the amendment. I was fascinated to hear from the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, that, after several years of sitting on these Benches, with a bit of exercise we shall all be able to revert to our youth.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, we support the amendment. I know that the Minister will say that it does not need to be on the face of the Bill because it is going to happen anyway, but we are entering a new era. We all support the concept of having much more self-evaluation, whether it is for schools, local authorities or whatever. This needs to be on the face of the Bill to stress its importance as an integral part of the new regime.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, Amendment No. 31 in the group is in my name. I thank the Minister for listening to our concerns and putting forward amendments which cover the issues about which we are concerned.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I support Amendments Nos. 33 and 53. I shall not go into the detail that the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has just covered, but I think that we are all concerned. We have all supported the speeding up of the inspection processes; there is complete unity on that. Consequently, however, issues could, if you like, fall between the guidelines. Sometimes that could be a factual matter and sometimes it could involve a misinterpretation by an inspector during a visit. We are not sure that there are adequate safeguards to protect a school or an individual teacher. As the noble Baroness said, given that an adverse report could damn a school or ruin an individual teacher's career, we want to make certain that safeguards exist to ensure that schools and teachers receive the right support. Perhaps the Minister can clarify the situation. We support these amendments.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, my noble friend has been waiting all day to speak.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, to what extent does my noble friend the Minister believe that the proposal of the Lyons review on the relocation of central government office jobs to the regions would have a positive impact on the readjustment of housing stock in this country?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: My Lords, to follow up the point made by my noble friend Lord Dubs about the non-availability of the cheapest fares, is the Minister aware that First Great Western has been completely unable to offer any Apex tickets to any of its destinations at weekends for the past six or nine months? That has a particular bearing on the very large number of people who wish to travel to Cardiff for sporting events at the Millennium Stadium. I declare an interest, as its deputy chairman. The unavailability of those tickets is forcing people to pay twice as much for those journeys as they would otherwise have paid.Lord Faulkner of Worcester
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Sheldon
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that reply. I understand that some of these charges can go up to £300, £400 and even £500. It is very difficult to see how these charges can be justified as they do not seem to be related to the 37 minutes which I understand is the average time taken to process these applications. Is it not very important to recognise that the people who come into this country to study are likely to become very important people in their own country when they return there, with enormous advantage to us? We should not he trying to make a profit but ensuring that the charges are reasonable in the circumstances.Lord Sheldon
: My Lords, given the world security situation today, is this Question not just a storm in a teacup?Lord Swinfen
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for the amendments and for the clarifications that he has given. They meet very well and precisely the representations that I have made on this part of the Bill. It is very important, in justice, when so much is at stake, that schools should have an opportunity for the matter to he referred to the top before anything is published. I am grateful.Lord Dearing
"the spiritual, moral, social and cultural development of pupils"1028Page 2, line 21, after "social" insert "physical"moved Amendment No. 12:
"the spiritual, moral, social and cultural development of pupils"1028Page 2, line 21, after "social" insert "physical"Lord Dearing
: My Lords, I want to be brief. I had the privilege of joining the discussions with Her Majesty's chief inspector attended by the noble Baroness, Lady Perry, and the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland. I am grateful to the Government for facilitating that and for their response there and elsewhere in the Bill.Lord Dearing
: My Lords, I am grateful to all noble Lords who have contributed to the debate. 1 am particularly grateful to the noble Baroness for her acknowledgement of my apology. I am very grateful for the Minister's very full reply to the points I raised. I am well reassured that all will be well. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Dearing
"I believe we must redraw the lines of what is acceptable behaviour".1043: My Lords, I have no idea whether the Government will accept this amendment. If they do, so be it, but I have some comments."I believe we must redraw the lines of what is acceptable behaviour".1043Lord Dearing
1035: My Lords, I do not need to repeat comments that I made in Committee, because the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has done that well and succinctly. I wish to add a further comment.1035Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
1061: My Lords, I do not feel that I can support either this amendment or the suggestion at this point that the Select Committee should be involved in the appointment of the chief inspector. I can think of many good reasons for involving parliamentary committees in major public appointments but, to put it in terms, I would not start here. If this were a general provision regarding
1061Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: My Lords, I support the three amendments, to which my name is attached, and pay tribute to the willingness of the Government and the chief inspector to be available for discussion before this debate. Things have moved on, as the character of the amendments suggests. None the less it is important that the amendments were tabled, because ultimately all three relate to the quality of inspectors. I have no doubt that a significant part of the progress that we have seen in schools has been due to the work of inspectors and the inspection system over the past 12 years. The concern of all noble Lords whose names are attached to the amendments is that a diminution of the quality and the perceived quality of the inspectorate could in the medium term adversely affect standards in schools.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: My Lords, I simply want to reassure the Minister that he was not listening in vain and his response has not been in vain. The amendment is helpful, and we appreciate it very much.Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
: My Lords, I know that I speak from the Opposition Benches, but the rules of the House must be obeyed. I am looking at the Government Whip and the Leader of the House. Four minutes is the gap maximum, and we are already into six.Lord Glentoran
1003"If you simply reintroduce the carry forward facility for a new system of individual registration there is a concern we would have that this might actually muddy the waters and actually perhaps lead to needless duplication"."The removal of the 'carry forward' appears to be the one factor that had the most significant impact on the number of people on the register".1002"Unless the downward trend in the number of registered electors is rectified, it has the potential of embedding itself structurally in the registration process".Electoral Registration in Northern Ireland,"On the basis of all the evidence currently available to us, we are satisfied that the Electoral Fraud (Northern Ireland) Act 2002 has been successful in reducing both the perception among the electorate of the prevalence of fraud and the actual level of electoral fraud, so far as it can be measured. The measures introduced in the act have served to increase the level of public confidence in the integrity of the electoral process".Combating Electoral Fraud in Northern Ireland1001: My Lords. I am grateful to the noble Baroness the Lord President for explaining the Bill. I also pay my compliments to the noble Lord, Lord Callaghan. The day I came into your Lordships' House for the first time to take the oath, I was sitting where the noble Viscount, Lord Slim, is, rather nervous and shaking, and Jim was sitting on the Privy Council Bench. In three minutes flat, he had me feeling very comfortable and relaxed. He told me about making his maiden speech from next door to where my noble friend Lady Park is sitting. It is a great day for him.1003"If you simply reintroduce the carry forward facility for a new system of individual registration there is a concern we would have that this might actually muddy the waters and actually perhaps lead to needless duplication"."The removal of the 'carry forward' appears to be the one factor that had the most significant impact on the number of people on the register".1002"Unless the downward trend in the number of registered electors is rectified, it has the potential of embedding itself structurally in the registration process".Electoral Registration in Northern Ireland,"On the basis of all the evidence currently available to us, we are satisfied that the Electoral Fraud (Northern Ireland) Act 2002 has been successful in reducing both the perception among the electorate of the prevalence of fraud and the actual level of electoral fraud, so far as it can be measured. The measures introduced in the act have served to increase the level of public confidence in the integrity of the electoral process".Combating Electoral Fraud in Northern Ireland1001Lord Glentoran
991: My Lords, I gladly follow the tribute that has just been paid by the noble Baroness the Leader of the House; it must be a quite exceptional tribute to a living Member of the House. The noble Lord, Lord Callaghan of Cardiff, carries great affection in this
991Lord Strathclyde
: My Lords, personally and on behalf of the Liberal Democrat Benches I associate myself with those good wishes. I hope that this is just a doff of the cap in the nineties on the way to a faultless century.Lord McNally
(Lord Smith of Clifton.)995"the Chief Electoral Officer has no information which suggests that the former elector has ceased to be resident at that address or has otherwise ceased to satisfy the conditions for registration","A Bill to make provision about the registration of electors in Northern Ireland in cases where required information is not provided"."the continuous fall experienced now risks damaging the integrity of the register due to a lack of comprehensiveness".994 rose to move, as an amendment to the Motion that the Bill be now read a second time, at end to insert "but this House deplores the attempt in the Bill to weaken the application of the Electoral Fraud (Northern Ireland) Act 2002".(Lord Smith of Clifton.)995"the Chief Electoral Officer has no information which suggests that the former elector has ceased to be resident at that address or has otherwise ceased to satisfy the conditions for registration","A Bill to make provision about the registration of electors in Northern Ireland in cases where required information is not provided"."the continuous fall experienced now risks damaging the integrity of the register due to a lack of comprehensiveness".994Lord Smith of Clifton
En passant: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness the Lord President of the Council for collaborating on some of the issues of concern to your Lordships. There is some unease about aspects of the Bill, and it was important that we had the principles behind the Bill fully rehearsed, especially at this time. En passantLord Smith of Clifton
: My Lords, I do not want to prolong this, but the problem exists before all public holidays in this country. People are not able to buy tickets in advance and cannot make plans to travel. Therefore, they are forced to travel by road. Will the noble Lord impress on the management of Network Rail—and I have no idea how that is done because the government structures are so obscure—that it must adhere to its target date and, what is more, that it must not occupy the railway on every public holiday, which is grossly wasteful of taxpayers' money and thoroughly upsets everyone's travelling arrangements?Lord Bradshaw
: My Lords, I rise to make a brief point on the wording of Amendment No. 5, which concerns me. We have a shared agenda that additional inspectors should have the necessary qualifications and skills to perform the tasks required of them. The amendment requires each additional inspector to carry out those functions in a way that enhances the reputation of the office of the chief inspector.Lord McKenzie of Luton
1081: My Lords, I have a few comments to make about the wording which troubles me.1081Lord McKenzie of Luton
: My Lords, can the Minister confirm that the actual increase in charges is from £165 to £250 for a personal application and from £250 to £500 for a postal application? If the last figures now cover charges—and therefore mean no burden to the taxpayer—what happened previously and to what extent did the taxpayer subsidise these students?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware that you can no longer buy tickets at railway stations on the West Coast Main Line to go on Eurostar and that you have to go to Waterloo to pick them up? Does he think that that is being done for the convenience of passengers?Baroness Golding
"The leadership and rank and file of Sinn Fein need to make the choice between continued association with and support for IRA criminality and the path of an exclusively democratic political party".996: My Lords, I shall be very brief. I understand that the Bill before us is to enable the names of those who were on the Northern Ireland register in September 2004, but who were not so registered again in December, to be carried forward on to this year's register. Presumably, that includes those who opted for a postal vote. If so, that could well strengthen the hand of Sinn Fein, which was riding high in 2004, but must now be regarded as likely, in a growing number of cases, to be rejected in favour of the SDLP, if the voter feels that it is safe to do so."The leadership and rank and file of Sinn Fein need to make the choice between continued association with and support for IRA criminality and the path of an exclusively democratic political party".996Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, I support Amendment No. 32, rather than the others in the group. There always has been interest in consultation, as the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, so eloquently said, and this has been discussed a great deal in Committee and outside the Chamber.Baroness Massey of Darwen
1062: My Lords, we have had a wonderful contribution from the noble Lord, Lord Sutherland, and I cannot improve on anything he has said. Although I am tempted to leave it at that, I have a brief speaking note to address one or two points that will help to reinforce the Government's position. HMCI carries with it the responsibility of being the head of a non-ministerial government body, which is different from the role of a non-departmental public body. It marks one of the ways in which the chief inspector is independent of the Secretary of State. Also, as head of Ofsted the chief inspector is designated as the accounting officer for government accounting purposes. That means that the chief inspector is required to appear before the Public Accounts Committee.1062Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure.
Moved accordingly, and, on Question, Motion agreed to.Baroness Andrews
10591058: My Lords, I am glad that the noble Baroness found the letter from my noble friend helpful. As she said, we agreed in Committee to consider the matter further. The correspondence was the next stage. This is an important issue, which we have acknowledged. The work that the Teacher Training Agency and Ofsted have carried out together in recent years has shown what an essential role inspection of provision can play in assuring and improving the quality of teacher training. The amendment would extend that role in a logical way.10591058Baroness Andrews
10371036: My Lords, I am all for cheering up noble Lords, and the amendment provides an opportunity to expand on the arguments that we made in Committee. It is not that we are just saying that this matter does not need to be in the Bill because it would happen anyway. There are other arguments.10371036Baroness Andrews
1032"Outdoor activities both at school and on residential courses enable pupils to enjoy challenging and unfamiliar experiences that test and develop their physical, social and personal skills".1031Every Child Matters: Change for Children in Schools,1030: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, for giving us an opportunity to have this short debate again. It is clearly a subject that he and the whole House are
1032"Outdoor activities both at school and on residential courses enable pupils to enjoy challenging and unfamiliar experiences that test and develop their physical, social and personal skills".1031Every Child Matters: Change for Children in Schools,1030Baroness Andrews
1070Every Child Matters,1069: My Lords, I am grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken, particularly to my noble friend Lady Turner for the way she has represented the views of Save the Children and has attempted to meet some of our concerns. There are three noble Baronesses who are major champions of the voice of the child, and I am grateful that they have responded so warmly to Amendment No. 32, which underpins so much of the subject matter of the amendments. I welcome the comments of the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, about her amendment, to which I shall briefly refer.1070Every Child Matters,1069Baroness Andrews
1077: My Lords, certainly we support the general intention expressed in the amendment. We
1077Baroness Andrews
1078: My Lords, I was not fishing for compliments, but I am grateful to the noble Baroness for placing on the record the credit of those organisations. It is gratifying to see the modest ideas that we started off with 10 years ago becoming a normative influence on the way that education is delivered. I am delighted that she said that. I wish that I could now accept her amendment; sadly I cannot.1078Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, I am grateful to noble Lords for setting out a beguiling definition of something simple and straightforward. The amendment is not quite that simple and straightforward, however.Baroness Andrews
Making the Connections. Delivering Better Services for Wales.10901089: My Lords, on that note, I shall start at the back of my speaking notes and reinforce the point that the noble Baroness has just made. This is indeed something that Welsh Assembly Ministers and everybody in the Assembly—and there has been wide consultation at every stage—wants and has asked for. It is firmly of the opinion that such advice that it has sought is needed. The chief inspector has been kept fully informed of the proposals at all stages and has met with the Minister. The proposals have been welcomed inside the Welsh Assembly and by practitioners and, as the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Conwy, mentioned, the NUT is very much of a mind to support them.Making the Connections. Delivering Better Services for Wales.10901089Baroness Andrews
Page 67, line 5, leave out from "may" to "appoint" in line 6. moved Amendment No. 1:
Page 67, line 5, leave out from "may" to "appoint" in line 6.Baroness Andrews
1012: My Lords, I have not spoken previously on the Bill. I listened to the discussion about the inspectorate with great interest. The noble Lord, Lord Dearing, pointed out that additional inspectors will be inspecting primary schools.1012Baroness Carnegy of Lour
1048: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, with the greatest respect, this part of the Bill is not about all that, but about whether the chief inspector reports to the Secretary of State on how it is all going—the overall picture.1048Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: My Lords, I re-emphasise what my noble friend just said. I was astonished by the reply that the Minister read out to the previous amendment about self-evaluation. When that is read, it will look pretty peculiar. I am glad that the House has changed that part of the Bill, and I hope that the Government will see fit to leave it thus.Baroness Carnegy of Lour
: My Lords, of course it was extremely reassuring to hear what he had to say about the future. What is really worrying me is this same quote from the National Audit Office, to the effect that Ofsted inspection teams have had a very small part in most inspections. There is a risk that the most is not being made of inspectors' wide experience to help schools and authorities improve.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, briefly, I should like to support the amendment proposed by my noble friend Lord Dearing and the comments of the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley. Although we have heard that research can come to opposite conclusions, there is little doubt that we have a growing problem with obesity. Both exercise and diet play a large part in that.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I support the amendment moved by the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, and supported by the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley. Bad behaviour and truancy have certainly been a problem during the 50 years or so that I have been involved with schools and juvenile courts. There does not seem to have been enough effort over a consistent period of time to deal with it sufficiently. We know that in schools some of the truant children tend to have parents with little belief in the value of schooling. Equally, it can be shown that where teachers and the school take a consistent attitude the schemes are beginning to have an effect—there are a number of examples in the National Audit Office report. What is worrying is the lack of any consistent pattern throughout schools, or throughout local education authorities. Sometimes a school complains that it does not get the backing of the local authority, and sometimes it is the other way round and due to the quality of the teachers.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
1044: My Lords, I am in sympathy with one of the things said by the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, about the need to look at the causes of problems which have been with us for such a long time. One thing that the inspectorate perhaps should look at, which is why I am inclined to support the amendment, is the policy of the school with regard to children who might be classified as having special needs, particularly in the behavioural and emotional area. Children who, for various reasons, are incapable of concentrating or of not disrupting other children are put in the ordinary classroom as a matter of government policy. These children may cause other children to behave as badly as they do themselves. It is important for the inspectorate to address whether there is enough support for children who are being included in the mainstream because of the Government's well-intentioned policy. I have had letters from numbers of teachers who say that the policy of inclusion causes immense problems in the area of behaviour in the classroom.1044Baroness Warnock
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Is he aware of the great concern that properties in the north of England are being demolished rather than conserved and restored, while parts of rural south-east England are being urbanised by large extensions of towns and cities? Does he not consider that both those factors may cause undesirable population drifts to the south from the north? If so, what can be done about it?Baroness Hanham
 asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Hanham
1022"New inspection arrangements currently under discussion in Parliament mean that the criteria for school inspection would in future cover the contribution schools make to pupil well-being".Every Child Matters: Change for Children in SchoolsOfficial Report,"Where inspection covers extended schools or children's centres, we shall certainly be looking to include specialist inspectors for the early years and elements of childcare in extended schools … We shall be using a common evaluation that will cover the foundation stage, primary, secondary and post-16 education … Teams will be configured to ensure that appropriate skills exist in the way that the noble Baroness wishes".—[Official Report,Official Report,"The most helpful thing that I can say to the noble Baroness … is that the current trials are looking at the aspects of the framework which capture the outcomes as set out in the Children Act in terms of the process of development. From the pilots, we have good and early evidence that that job is being done through the inspection framework, and it can certainly be developed and enhanced through the new training which will be available for the additional inspectors as they come on stream. The new inspection training will reflect that and all inspectors will have to demonstrate it fully through the training inspections".—[Official Report,1021"( ) The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them possess the necessary specialist knowledge, including, where
1021Page 67, line 14, at end insert—
1021"( ) The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them possess the necessary specialist knowledge, including, where
1021moved Amendment No. 4:
1022"New inspection arrangements currently under discussion in Parliament mean that the criteria for school inspection would in future cover the contribution schools make to pupil well-being".Every Child Matters: Change for Children in SchoolsOfficial Report,"Where inspection covers extended schools or children's centres, we shall certainly be looking to include specialist inspectors for the early years and elements of childcare in extended schools … We shall be using a common evaluation that will cover the foundation stage, primary, secondary and post-16 education … Teams will be configured to ensure that appropriate skills exist in the way that the noble Baroness wishes".—[Official Report,Official Report,"The most helpful thing that I can say to the noble Baroness … is that the current trials are looking at the aspects of the framework which capture the outcomes as set out in the Children Act in terms of the process of development. From the pilots, we have good and early evidence that that job is being done through the inspection framework, and it can certainly be developed and enhanced through the new training which will be available for the additional inspectors as they come on stream. The new inspection training will reflect that and all inspectors will have to demonstrate it fully through the training inspections".—[Official Report,1021"( ) The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them possess the necessary specialist knowledge, including, where
1021Page 67, line 14, at end insert—
1021"( ) The Chief Inspector shall ensure that those additional inspectors assigned to inspect any school shall between them possess the necessary specialist knowledge, including, where
1021Baroness Walmsley
1029: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, for his very gracious apology. I assure him that it was not required. I believe that he needed to apologise to Hull rather than to me, and he has done that very graciously.1029Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for those words of reassurance, which have helped to set my mind at rest. I welcome in particular the fact that the inspections will he looking not only for process but for outcomes. That is vitally important.Baroness Walmsley
1042: My Lords, I rise to support the amendment. We on these Benches would like to be tough not just on bad behaviour and truancy but on the causes of bad behaviour and truancy. We believe that there are two major causes of bad behaviour. The one stems from situations within the school, but the other very often stems from situations outside the school.1042Baroness Walmsley
1053Official Report,1052: My Lords, Amendment No. 25, which is tabled in my name, is almost the same as the noble Lord's amendment. I associate myself and
1053Official Report,1052Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for her reply and apologise that I did not go into detail about Amendment No. 17. I was so overwhelmed by the wonderful letter that I had about Amendment No. 16. However, on Amendment No. 17, I am grateful for the Minister's confirmation that the situation is as she said and that CPD is covered as well as ITT.Baroness Walmsley
1057"I do concede that there is a legitimate argument in favour of widening Ofsted's legal powers to some extent beyond the training of teachers and specialist teaching assistants (despite the fact that
1057"or the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA). As I have explained, the inspection of some of the training for school support staff which the Training and Development Agency for Schools will sponsor is likely to fall more obviously to ALI rather than Ofsted. There are also potentially some varieties of training for teachers and other members of the school workforce which would be the preserve of the QAA"."First, it is clearly right that the new Agency should be able to call on the expertise of Ofsted and, if appropriate, other inspectorates where that would be of value in reaching decisions on whether or not to make financial support available. Second, it is also clearly right that there should be a clear distinction in practice between those matters for which Ofsted is responsible and those which fall within the remits of other bodies, such as ALI"—Official Report,That would parallel exactly the powers that the chief inspector already has in respect of teachers. On the face of it, it seems a sensible suggestion. Although this will shock the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, with noble Lords' permission the Government would like to reflect further on it".—[Official Report,"The noble Baroness proposes that Ofsted should now he given a power not only to examine the work of support staff in schools, but also the training that they receive and for which Part 3 of the present Bill provides.Page 2, line 37, after "teachers" insert "and other staff involved in providing support for teaching and learning"moved Amendment No. 16:
1057"I do concede that there is a legitimate argument in favour of widening Ofsted's legal powers to some extent beyond the training of teachers and specialist teaching assistants (despite the fact that
1057"or the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA). As I have explained, the inspection of some of the training for school support staff which the Training and Development Agency for Schools will sponsor is likely to fall more obviously to ALI rather than Ofsted. There are also potentially some varieties of training for teachers and other members of the school workforce which would be the preserve of the QAA"."First, it is clearly right that the new Agency should be able to call on the expertise of Ofsted and, if appropriate, other inspectorates where that would be of value in reaching decisions on whether or not to make financial support available. Second, it is also clearly right that there should be a clear distinction in practice between those matters for which Ofsted is responsible and those which fall within the remits of other bodies, such as ALI"—Official Report,That would parallel exactly the powers that the chief inspector already has in respect of teachers. On the face of it, it seems a sensible suggestion. Although this will shock the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, with noble Lords' permission the Government would like to reflect further on it".—[Official Report,"The noble Baroness proposes that Ofsted should now he given a power not only to examine the work of support staff in schools, but also the training that they receive and for which Part 3 of the present Bill provides.Page 2, line 37, after "teachers" insert "and other staff involved in providing support for teaching and learning"Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his response and, in particular, for Amendment No. 32. It is an example of positive reflection taking place on the government Front Bench in response to the House's concerns.Baroness Walmsley
1064Official Report."100 pilot inspections in which the head, staff, parents and governors have each had a full opportunity to take part in what is after all a defining moment for the school".—[Official Report.Official Report,"During the course of the event, there will be similar engagements with pupils and parents. The aim is to verify the evidence set out in the self-evaluation summary, ensuring that it accords with what people without any vested interests tell the inspectors about their experience of the school and how it is delivering".—[Official Report,"However, we know that in the past inspectors have consulted widely with all the relevant parties. That has always been extremely important. Without that, we would not now have a school inspection system. However, the question of why we should put certain provisions into statute has been raised"."the School Inspections Act 1996 places a requirement on schools to arrange a meeting with parents and inspectors, and requires inspectors to consult the appropriate authority about the inspection. However, there is nothing in the statute about consulting pupils, head teachers or staff. That is something on which we shall reflect"."consult and have regard to""( ) in the course of any inspection of a school, to consult and have regard to the views of the head teacher, staff, parents, pupils and governors of that school,"1063Page 3, line 42, after "prescribed," insert—
"( ) in the course of any inspection of a school, to consult and have regard to the views of the head teacher, staff, parents, pupils and governors of that school,"1063moved Amendment No. 19:
1064Official Report."100 pilot inspections in which the head, staff, parents and governors have each had a full opportunity to take part in what is after all a defining moment for the school".—[Official Report.Official Report,"During the course of the event, there will be similar engagements with pupils and parents. The aim is to verify the evidence set out in the self-evaluation summary, ensuring that it accords with what people without any vested interests tell the inspectors about their experience of the school and how it is delivering".—[Official Report,"However, we know that in the past inspectors have consulted widely with all the relevant parties. That has always been extremely important. Without that, we would not now have a school inspection system. However, the question of why we should put certain provisions into statute has been raised"."the School Inspections Act 1996 places a requirement on schools to arrange a meeting with parents and inspectors, and requires inspectors to consult the appropriate authority about the inspection. However, there is nothing in the statute about consulting pupils, head teachers or staff. That is something on which we shall reflect"."consult and have regard to""( ) in the course of any inspection of a school, to consult and have regard to the views of the head teacher, staff, parents, pupils and governors of that school,"1063Page 3, line 42, after "prescribed," insert—
"( ) in the course of any inspection of a school, to consult and have regard to the views of the head teacher, staff, parents, pupils and governors of that school,"1063Baroness Walmsley
"that additional support is required at the initiative of the appropriate authority"."by or under the direction of the local education authority"."Feelings of public humiliation and reduced confidence experienced by both teachers and pupils as a result of negative press attention and stigmatisation".The Human Cost of Special Measures"either the schools needing significant improvement would be put into the very heavy sin bin category or we would compromise on the very heavy intervention sin bin category because we had many [schools] that needed significant improvement",1080"sought to put everything into one category … and did not make the differentiation",Official Report(b) that additional support is required at the initiative of the appropriate authority""(a) that additional support is required by or under the direction of the local education authority, orPage 7, line 7, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert—
(b) that additional support is required at the initiative of the appropriate authority""(a) that additional support is required by or under the direction of the local education authority, ormoved Amendment No. 34:
"that additional support is required at the initiative of the appropriate authority"."by or under the direction of the local education authority"."Feelings of public humiliation and reduced confidence experienced by both teachers and pupils as a result of negative press attention and stigmatisation".The Human Cost of Special Measures"either the schools needing significant improvement would be put into the very heavy sin bin category or we would compromise on the very heavy intervention sin bin category because we had many [schools] that needed significant improvement",1080"sought to put everything into one category … and did not make the differentiation",Official Report(b) that additional support is required at the initiative of the appropriate authority""(a) that additional support is required by or under the direction of the local education authority, orPage 7, line 7, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert—
(b) that additional support is required at the initiative of the appropriate authority""(a) that additional support is required by or under the direction of the local education authority, orBaroness Walmsley
1068: My Lords, I should like to speak to Amendment No. 28 in my name, which is grouped with Amendment No. 20 in the name of the noble Baroness, Lady Turner.1068Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, the noble Lord has been helpful and it is clear that there is no meeting of minds on this. However, it was useful to hear the Minister assure us once again that the package of support or the changes required in the interests of pupils and schools will be forthcoming when the inspectors have identified that they are needed.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. It is helpful that he has referred to such matters from the Dispatch Box. The amendment reflects the concerns of more than one organisation. The NAHT, the LGA and the NUT have all come to us about the matter and so it is helpful to have a reiteration of the position by the noble Lord from the Dispatch Box. I trust that it will set a whole range of minds at rest on the issue because it would he a nonsense if all this went ahead without such consultation. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
HansardOfficial Report,HansardI think that we have to resist cluttering up primary legislation with detailed specifications of process. That is what guidance is for. I repeat: Official Report,HansardOfficial Report,-We totally agree that the LEA should consult with the school in preparing the statement. It is essential that the head teacher is involved from the outset. That already happens without any legal requirement. It must and will continue in the future".—[Official Report,Page 8, line 28, after "must" insert ", after consultation with the appropriate body for a maintained school and the head teacher of that school"moved Amendment No. 45:
HansardOfficial Report,HansardI think that we have to resist cluttering up primary legislation with detailed specifications of process. That is what guidance is for. I repeat: Official Report,HansardOfficial Report,-We totally agree that the LEA should consult with the school in preparing the statement. It is essential that the head teacher is involved from the outset. That already happens without any legal requirement. It must and will continue in the future".—[Official Report,Page 8, line 28, after "must" insert ", after consultation with the appropriate body for a maintained school and the head teacher of that school"Baroness Walmsley
1085: My Lords, I am sorry. We have just discovered that the first name on the amendment
1085Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I shall say a very brief word. I believe in devolution and I believe that the Assembly wants the panel. In that case, as far as I am concerned, it should have it.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords. I thank the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran, for his support. I tried to indicate to noble Lords the time available.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, it is normal courtesy in the House for people who wish to speak in the gap to give notice. It would be helpful if we had an indication in advance because then the subsequent speakers would know when to get up. I remind noble Lords that when the clock says three minutes, the four minutes for gap speeches are over.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, we are also extremely grateful to the Minister. We are very well satisfied with the amendments, which go a considerable way towards providing the sort of complaints procedures for which we were looking.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1009Official Report,"Contractors will [still] have a vital part to play. They will have to recruit inspectors and demonstrate that those recruits meet the criteria defined by Ofsted, matching competencies of HMI. HMI will monitor the process and ensure that they are consistently of high quality".—[Official Report,"by the chief inspector who will authorise inspectors who are fit to practise and remove that right if necessary"."There will be no entry test for additional inspectors but there will be a clearer, tighter framework for continuouos professional monitoring"."Every additional inspector, HMI or not, and regardless of skill, competence or experience, will have to undergo the same training to implement the new system as HMIs".1008: My Lords, my name is down among those supporting this amendment. I too would like to pay tribute to the Government for meeting with most of us to discuss these issues. In a sense, there has been a meeting of minds already.1009Official Report,"Contractors will [still] have a vital part to play. They will have to recruit inspectors and demonstrate that those recruits meet the criteria defined by Ofsted, matching competencies of HMI. HMI will monitor the process and ensure that they are consistently of high quality".—[Official Report,"by the chief inspector who will authorise inspectors who are fit to practise and remove that right if necessary"."There will be no entry test for additional inspectors but there will be a clearer, tighter framework for continuouos professional monitoring"."Every additional inspector, HMI or not, and regardless of skill, competence or experience, will have to undergo the same training to implement the new system as HMIs".1008Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that the costs of student visas in this country already compare unfavourably with the costs of student visas in other countries? What assessment have the Government made of the impact of these changes and their refusal to consider visa appeals, which was announced on 8 February, on the number of overseas students who might come to this country?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: I beg your pardon, my Lords.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, will speak to the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1086: My Lords, I apologise to the House. The amendment was in all our names, and, rightly or wrongly, we believed that we were leading on it.1086Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, Amendment No. 47 relates to Clause 15, which concerns the destination of reports for non-maintained schools. It seeks to amend subsection (1)—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"It is proposed that an independent complaints adjudicator is appointed for Estyn. This mechanism has been adopted successfully by some other inspectorates".Official Report,"Initial consideration has been given to the appointment of an independent adjudicator in Wales akin to the post put in place by Ofsted in partnership with the Adult Learning Inspectorate. However, given the relatively small number of complaints received each year alongside the ready access to the Welsh Administration ombudsman, we do not believe that such an appointment would improve current procedures or provide value for money".—[Official Report,1072Official Report,"There must also be opportunities for formal challenge to both the professional judgments and opinions expressed. Again, Estyn has such procedures which are published and made widely available. Ultimately, the professional opinion of the inspectorate has to be recognised and accepted … Those dissatisfied with the conduct of an inspection or with how Estyn has managed the complaint can approach the Welsh Administration ombudsman".—[Official Report,Official Report,"We very much accept that the quality and credibility of the complaints process and the ability to resolve disputes, which is ideally what the complaints process should be about, is integral to the development of the new system".—[Official Report,1071( ) to establish a complaints procedure by which the appropriate body for a maintained school or the proprietor of a non-maintained school may complain about the conduct of any section 5 inspection or the findings of the report of a section 5 inspection"Page 3, line 44, at end insert ", and
( ) to establish a complaints procedure by which the appropriate body for a maintained school or the proprietor of a non-maintained school may complain about the conduct of any section 5 inspection or the findings of the report of a section 5 inspection"moved Amendment No. 21:
"It is proposed that an independent complaints adjudicator is appointed for Estyn. This mechanism has been adopted successfully by some other inspectorates".Official Report,"Initial consideration has been given to the appointment of an independent adjudicator in Wales akin to the post put in place by Ofsted in partnership with the Adult Learning Inspectorate. However, given the relatively small number of complaints received each year alongside the ready access to the Welsh Administration ombudsman, we do not believe that such an appointment would improve current procedures or provide value for money".—[Official Report,1072Official Report,"There must also be opportunities for formal challenge to both the professional judgments and opinions expressed. Again, Estyn has such procedures which are published and made widely available. Ultimately, the professional opinion of the inspectorate has to be recognised and accepted … Those dissatisfied with the conduct of an inspection or with how Estyn has managed the complaint can approach the Welsh Administration ombudsman".—[Official Report,Official Report,"We very much accept that the quality and credibility of the complaints process and the ability to resolve disputes, which is ideally what the complaints process should be about, is integral to the development of the new system".—[Official Report,1071( ) to establish a complaints procedure by which the appropriate body for a maintained school or the proprietor of a non-maintained school may complain about the conduct of any section 5 inspection or the findings of the report of a section 5 inspection"Page 3, line 44, at end insert ", and
( ) to establish a complaints procedure by which the appropriate body for a maintained school or the proprietor of a non-maintained school may complain about the conduct of any section 5 inspection or the findings of the report of a section 5 inspection"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his lengthy explanation. We are happy with the informal procedures. I now feel more reassured about the formal procedures. Making the adjudicator completely independent of Ofsted is an important step. We appreciate that this is taking place.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
Every Child Matters1076"(g) any provision supportive of the education of pupils at the school which is made at the school or elsewhere for the benefit of its pupils by persons not directly under the control or supervision of the head teacher of the school or the appropriate authority"Page 4, line 46, at end insert—
"(g) any provision supportive of the education of pupils at the school which is made at the school or elsewhere for the benefit of its pupils by persons not directly under the control or supervision of the head teacher of the school or the appropriate authority"moved Amendment No. 24:
Every Child Matters1076"(g) any provision supportive of the education of pupils at the school which is made at the school or elsewhere for the benefit of its pupils by persons not directly under the control or supervision of the head teacher of the school or the appropriate authority"Page 4, line 46, at end insert—
"(g) any provision supportive of the education of pupils at the school which is made at the school or elsewhere for the benefit of its pupils by persons not directly under the control or supervision of the head teacher of the school or the appropriate authority"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I thank the Minister very much for her response. As the noble Baroness realises, this was a probing amendment. The answers given are extremely reassuring. I am very glad that Ofsted does not have powers to inspect scouts and brownies, nor should it. When looking at the degree to which Ofsted's empire has been extended to, for example, childminders, there are times when we feel that its tentacles will reach into every part of the world. I am not sure that they should. It is right, as we discussed regarding out-of-school trips, that there are parts of this life where Ofsted does not reach.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, perhaps I might draw attention to the fact that the noble Baroness herself was involved in creating an organisation—it used to be called Education Extra; Contin You is its name today—that has done an enormous amount to extend this area. We are all grateful to her for what she achieved in that position.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her reply. The amendment is probing in nature and I have to say that, on looking at it again with a view to arguing the case, I thought that it rather states the obvious. If truth be known, this is precisely what Parliament is already doing. The notion that Parliament might possibly extend its powers towards the process of appointments is not covered in the amendment as such, but I thank the Minister for responding to the issue. It is useful to clarify the relationship between the chief inspector and Parliament, although this is certainly not a matter which I intend to press to a vote. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"We have not closed our minds to further change but we are not persuaded by your proposal for involvement in the appointment of HMCI".Official Report,"will be accountable, both to the Public Accounts Committee and to the Education and Skills Select Committee, for the quality of inspections and for the judgments in all inspection reports"—[Official Report,1060( ) must be available to respond to scrutiny by Parliament of reports made under this section including scrutiny of financial matters raised by such reports in accordance with the relevant Parliamentary procedures"Page 3, line 5, at end insert ", and
( ) must be available to respond to scrutiny by Parliament of reports made under this section including scrutiny of financial matters raised by such reports in accordance with the relevant Parliamentary procedures"moved Amendment No. 18:
"We have not closed our minds to further change but we are not persuaded by your proposal for involvement in the appointment of HMCI".Official Report,"will be accountable, both to the Public Accounts Committee and to the Education and Skills Select Committee, for the quality of inspections and for the judgments in all inspection reports"—[Official Report,1060( ) must be available to respond to scrutiny by Parliament of reports made under this section including scrutiny of financial matters raised by such reports in accordance with the relevant Parliamentary procedures"Page 3, line 5, at end insert ", and
( ) must be available to respond to scrutiny by Parliament of reports made under this section including scrutiny of financial matters raised by such reports in accordance with the relevant Parliamentary procedures"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"is that schools should have a single, integrated development plan which maps out the actions needed to bring about improvement. It should have regard for and incorporate previous plans that have an impact on the work of the school. It must be based on an objective assessment of the needs of the school and should set out the priorities for development. It is all too easy to identify a weakness and include that area for development without diagnosing exactly what needs to be done and why. An intelligent self-evaluation will identify the precise issue that needs tackling and what to do about it. In this way action can be targeted to have the greatest impact".New Relationship with Schools,"One of the principles of the NRwS"—1034"Self-evaluation is not an activity carried out just once, before planning starts. It is continuous and is at the heart of the school improvement process. School leaders will want to ensure they have effective, non-bureaucratic systems in place which allow them to collect appropriate evidence over time as part of the cycle of development and review. In this way rigorous self-evaluation and the judgements derived from it can be integrated within their day-to-day management, especially in relation to: the performance management of staff",Official Report,"The inspector will compare the outcomes of the school's own self-evaluation with the outcomes of the inspection. How successful the school has been in identifying its own strengths and weaknesses will be an important test in the inspection and will be reflected in the reports".—[Official Report,Official Report,"the school that is clearly not performing well, but which owns up to it and accepts it—in other words, it has an honest and realistic self-evaluation of where it sits and the commitment to do something about it—could find that it is in a different category from a school that is in denial".—[Official Report,Official Report,"the reason why it is not necessary, is that the assessment of the school's self-evaluation will take place partly through the inspection itself, which will test the school's judgment … against the evidence that inspectors have gathered".—[Official Report,Official Report,"first … that the philosophy of the inspection system that this Bill encapsulates requires a confidence in the capacity of schools to evaluate themselves … The Secretary of State needs to know that self-evaluation is working; otherwise, he will have to change the inspection system".—[Official Report,"the quality of the leadership in and management of"1033"the quality of the education provided by schools in England"."in demonstrating why we remain convinced that self-evaluation should not be statutory".Hansard,"( ) the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures of self-evaluation"Page 2, line 24, at end insert ", and
"( ) the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures of self-evaluation"moved Amendment No. 13:
"is that schools should have a single, integrated development plan which maps out the actions needed to bring about improvement. It should have regard for and incorporate previous plans that have an impact on the work of the school. It must be based on an objective assessment of the needs of the school and should set out the priorities for development. It is all too easy to identify a weakness and include that area for development without diagnosing exactly what needs to be done and why. An intelligent self-evaluation will identify the precise issue that needs tackling and what to do about it. In this way action can be targeted to have the greatest impact".New Relationship with Schools,"One of the principles of the NRwS"—1034"Self-evaluation is not an activity carried out just once, before planning starts. It is continuous and is at the heart of the school improvement process. School leaders will want to ensure they have effective, non-bureaucratic systems in place which allow them to collect appropriate evidence over time as part of the cycle of development and review. In this way rigorous self-evaluation and the judgements derived from it can be integrated within their day-to-day management, especially in relation to: the performance management of staff",Official Report,"The inspector will compare the outcomes of the school's own self-evaluation with the outcomes of the inspection. How successful the school has been in identifying its own strengths and weaknesses will be an important test in the inspection and will be reflected in the reports".—[Official Report,Official Report,"the school that is clearly not performing well, but which owns up to it and accepts it—in other words, it has an honest and realistic self-evaluation of where it sits and the commitment to do something about it—could find that it is in a different category from a school that is in denial".—[Official Report,Official Report,"the reason why it is not necessary, is that the assessment of the school's self-evaluation will take place partly through the inspection itself, which will test the school's judgment … against the evidence that inspectors have gathered".—[Official Report,Official Report,"first … that the philosophy of the inspection system that this Bill encapsulates requires a confidence in the capacity of schools to evaluate themselves … The Secretary of State needs to know that self-evaluation is working; otherwise, he will have to change the inspection system".—[Official Report,"the quality of the leadership in and management of"1033"the quality of the education provided by schools in England"."in demonstrating why we remain convinced that self-evaluation should not be statutory".Hansard,"( ) the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures of self-evaluation"Page 2, line 24, at end insert ", and
"( ) the degree to which schools are developing rigorous internal procedures of self-evaluation"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1038"including whether the financial resources made available to those schools are managed efficiently"."the quality of the leadership in and management of those schools",: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her response but I am not convinced by what she said. First, we ask for the amendment to go in Clause 2 but not in Clause 5. In other words, it requires the chief inspector to report to the Secretary of State on how far self-evaluation procedures are developing satisfactorily within the body of schools. It is not an issue that we are asking to be reported on for each individual school. Originally I thought that perhaps we ought to have added it to Clause 5, but as the Minister spoke, it struck me that perhaps it was good that we had not added the amendment to Clause 5 as well because there is a very strong case for making self-evaluation a general issue on which the chief inspector reports as distinct from a specific issue in relation to each school.1038"including whether the financial resources made available to those schools are managed efficiently"."the quality of the leadership in and management of those schools",Baroness Sharp of Guildford
986: My Lords, would my noble friend like to hear a different story? In the past two months I travelled to Manchester from London Euston and last week I went to Liverpool from London Euston. On both occasions, I booked on the
986Baroness Wall of New Barnet
"a summary report and recommendations in language capable of being readily understood by, or explained to, pupils registered at the school".Every Child Matters,1067Page 3, line 44, after "inspection" insert "(including a summary report and recommendations in language capable of being readily understood by, or explained to, pupils registered at the school)"moved Amendment No. 20:
"a summary report and recommendations in language capable of being readily understood by, or explained to, pupils registered at the school".Every Child Matters,1067Page 3, line 44, after "inspection" insert "(including a summary report and recommendations in language capable of being readily understood by, or explained to, pupils registered at the school)"Baroness Turner of Camden
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend the Minister for that response. I agree with her that Amendment No. 32 has changed the landscape of the debate, for which I am grateful, as are other noble Lords. What the Minister said about the Ofsted guidance is very useful, and that puts it on the record. I shall have pleasure in consulting Save the Children to see what it thinks. In the mean time, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Turner of Camden
: My Lords, I should like to support the amendments of my noble friend Lady Turner on helping children have a role in the new school inspection arrangements and to support the Government's Amendment No. 32, which requires the chief inspector to have regard to any views expressed by registered pupils at the school when conducting an inspection. That, of course, was discussed with the previous group.Baroness David
Page 9, line 7, at end insert "and the local education authority in which the school is situated."moved Amendment No. 47:
Page 9, line 7, at end insert "and the local education authority in which the school is situated."Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I have been waiting a long time to speak.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for bringing some focus to the slight vagueness that we received in the letter. Being my own critical friend, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1087: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her answer. I understand what she means about best practice, but I should have thought that in these days of partnerships between all sorts of institutions it would not have been a difficult thing to do. With local authorities, it is rather like devolving power to where "the rubber meets the road", as the Americans say. We feel that they should be involved and have an understanding about what is going on in
1087Baroness Morris of Bolton
1088Leave out Clause 21.moved Amendment No. 51:
1088Leave out Clause 21.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I can reassure the noble Baroness that these issues have been considered very carefully, not least in regard to one issue in which this country may appear at first flush to be more expensive. The noble Baroness will know well that the effectiveness of the scheme overall gives incredibly good value for money. For instance, the length of most courses for a first-time degree is three years; in many other countries it is four or five years. So, overall, we have created a very good environment in which students are able to take advantage of the most excellent opportunities that they have right here in this country from our wonderful universities.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I understand the noble and learned Lord's concern. Perhaps I may reassure him about the way in which visa applications will be dealt with. The whole of the time that a student will need to be here will be covered by the original visa given to the student and we hope that there will not be a need for further extensions in the way that the noble and learned Lord fears. We are committed to ensuring that international students are welcomed here, that they have a vibrant and proper time, and that they benefit hugely—as we will benefit—from their presence in this country.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, let me make it plain that in relation to the recovery costs, it is still not absolutely full cost recovery. As I have tried to make clear, the Government have accepted that there is a real benefit to this country in having foreign students come here and, as a result, we make a contribution of about £85 in that respect. On the other charges, an assessment was made in accordance with Treasury guidelines on what proper recovery should be made, and the figures were set at that level.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I certainly undertake to take that matter hack, but I can assure my noble friend that a great deal of work is now being done with universities and establishments to ensure that we have a proper grip on these issues and that students who come here quite genuinely to study do that properly.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I shall certainly write to the noble Lord. The student task force, which was set up last year, has successfully tackled a number of issues. We have been working very closely with the education sector to make sure that these matters are better and more properly understood. However, I shall write to the noble Lord about the details he seeks.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
982: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend about the importance of students coming here and the benefits to this country. I can reassure him that the costs of processing student leave-to-remain applications are based on approved Treasury cost recovery guidelines. This means taking the full cost of providing the leave to remain service
982Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the revenue raised through charging for visa fees for overseas students is on a cost recovery basis, not on profit. Visa fees are set at a level to ensure that the full cost of providing the world-wide entry clearance is met entirely from fee income and no part of the cost is met by the UK taxpayer. Revenue raised for the financial year 2002–03 was £6,548,580 and for 2003–04 it was £8,101,080.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister very much for that full and detailed reply. I have no quarrel with him that the system, as proposed, is better than what we have at the moment. I fear that he has not convinced me that the amendments are not necessary. The sole protection being offered against a faulty—if one can put it that way—or inadequate inspector is that the contractor that has produced such a person or group of persons would be in breach of contract.Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, I thank the Minister. Starting backwards from his remarks, if the Government think that it is right for a list to be published, what is wrong with putting that in the Bill?Baroness Perry of Southwark
1017"Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills"?"An additional inspector acting within the authority conferred on him by the Chief Inspector has all the powers of one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England".: My Lords, however plausible or implausible, that can happen, as we know. Even under the current system of registered inspectors there have been some very poor experiences.1017"Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills"?"An additional inspector acting within the authority conferred on him by the Chief Inspector has all the powers of one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England".Baroness Perry of Southwark
Page 69, line 25, at end insert "once a period of induction by Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England, lasting not less than through three inspections, has been completed"moved Amendment No. 11:
Page 69, line 25, at end insert "once a period of induction by Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England, lasting not less than through three inspections, has been completed"Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that full reply. I can only say how wise the Welsh are, and I hope that in England we are moving much closer to an equally robust system. With those assurances, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Perry of Southwark
"( ) Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills, expertise and experience to perform their functions in a manner which enhances the reputation of his office."Page 67, line 14, at end insert—
"( ) Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills, expertise and experience to perform their functions in a manner which enhances the reputation of his office."moved Amendment No. 5:
"( ) Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills, expertise and experience to perform their functions in a manner which enhances the reputation of his office."Page 67, line 14, at end insert—
"( ) Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills, expertise and experience to perform their functions in a manner which enhances the reputation of his office."Baroness Perry of Southwark
Page 67, line 20, at end insert "once a period of induction by Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England, lasting not less than through three inspections, has been completed"moved Amendment No. 7:
Page 67, line 20, at end insert "once a period of induction by Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools in England, lasting not less than through three inspections, has been completed"Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, I, too, thank the Minister. The amendment goes all the way, as we all wished it to do. We are grateful for that. I am sorry that the Minister's other amendment did not go quite as far as we wished, but this one certainly does. I thank him very much for listening.Baroness Perry of Southwark
1007"Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills, expertise and experience, to perform their functions in a manner which enhances the reputation of his office"—1006Page 67, line 14, at end insert "and a list of such additional inspectors shall be published annually" moved Amendment No. 2:
1007"Every additional inspector must satisfy the Chief Inspector that they have the necessary skills, expertise and experience, to perform their functions in a manner which enhances the reputation of his office"—1006Page 67, line 14, at end insert "and a list of such additional inspectors shall be published annually"Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, I also support placing the amendment on the face of the Bill. As has been cogently said by others, the whole process of short inspections depends on the school having a rigorous system of self-evaluation. We used to talk about such matters as the "reflective practitioner" or the "thinking school". This is being reified in the new system of inspections. The main object of the short inspection is to ensure that the school is performing self-evaluation in a way that is more than paying lip service and putting ticks in boxes. It is too easy for self-evaluation to become purely routine with no real reflection or growth of learning among the school community.Baroness Perry of Southwark
1045: My Lords, I had not originally intended to intervene in this debate. because the arguments have been so cogently made and the noble Baroness has just added her weighty voice arguing for the importance of the amendment. However, I was so surprised by the arguments advanced by the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, against the amendment that I had to intervene.1045Baroness Perry of Southwark
: My Lords, is the Chairman of Committees aware that it is already difficult enough in the car park and that the structure represents a further loss of car parking space? What arrangements are being made to compensate for that loss, as well as to review the future car parking situation—we are being told that we may lose all parking facilities at the front of the building?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, would the Minister agree that one of the reasons why it is not "value for money", as he puts it, to refurbish properties, is that it is government policy to charge VAT at the full rate on refurbishment while charging a zero rate for new buildings? Does he not agree that it is time the Government revisited that matter, given that in many parts of the country the problem is not a shortage of housing but the condition of existing housing?Baroness Scott of Needham Market
10051004: My Lords, I thank noble Lords who have spoken. I can perhaps deal with some of the wider issues raised at the outset. I repeat what I said in my opening remarks: there has been pressure from the Northern Ireland political parties, who have expressed concern at the alarming number of people who have fallen out of the register. All noble Lords acknowledge that there was an issue of fraud, but having worked so hard to achieve the integrity of the system, we would not now want to put in place anything that undermined it. I am absolutely confident about the integrity of the process and of the register. I will come back to that.10051004Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.)993992: My Lords, the Electoral Registration (Northern Ireland) Bill has four main components.(Baroness Amos.)993992Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, noble Lords will be aware that Grand Committee cannot last for more than four hours.Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.)Monetary and Fiscal Policy: Present Successes and Future Problems,: My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Monetary and Fiscal Policy: Present Successes and Future Problems,Baroness Amos
: My Lords, what kind of wheels are they and what kind of work is it?Lord Renton
: My Lords, we have discussed the agenda of the 1 March London meeting on supporting the Palestinian Authority with the Palestinians themselves and international partners. The Palestinian Authority will present its proposals on state-building and capacity-building in the areas of governance, security and economic development. We anticipate that the international community will respond by offering practical support. We will continue to consult the Palestinians, the quartet and international partners in the run-up to the London meeting.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that helpful reply. Will she tell us a little more about how this conference—which will include only the Palestinians and will be held without Israeli participation—fits into the broader picture of moving, at last we hope, towards a viable two-state solution, particularly in the light of the rather encouraging and constructive comments made by President Bush in Brussels yesterday about the need for a territorially contiguous Palestinian state?Lord Wallace of Saltaire
1094: My Lords, I endorse what the noble Lord, Lord Wallace of Saltaire, said about President Bush's remarks yesterday. I am happy to tell your Lordships that when I met the Arab League ambassadors this morning I noticed that those remarks had also been noted by them. The real purpose of this meeting is to allow the international community to support the Palestinian Authority's own plans to build the institutions needed to underpin a future Palestinian state. In the context of the remarks of the noble Lord, Lord Wallace of Saltaire, it is a question of making sure
1094Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords. while I endorse very warmly the welcome of the noble Lord, Lord Wallace, for President Bush's reported statement about the need for the respective parts of a Palestinian state to be contiguous and his renewed call for a freeze on settlement activity, may I nevertheless ask the Minister to give an assurance to this House, and perhaps also to the Palestinians attending the conference on 1 March, that Her Majesty's Government will continue to keep a close watch on settlement activity in the light of Prime Minister Sharon's threat to consolidate an Israeli presence in the territories other than Gaza?Lord Wright of Richmond
: My Lords, I can give your Lordships an assurance that we will remain very watchful over what happens regarding settlement activity. Your Lordships will know that we have already expressed disappointment that the Israelis have plans in hand for increased settlement building. That is within the bounds of already established settlements, but phase one of the road map demands that the Israelis freeze their settlement activity. There are concerns that Israeli action at the moment is not compatible with such a freeze. There are also concerns about renewed activity regarding building the security barrier, which has been a subject of considerable anxiety in your Lordships' House.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that sustaining the considerable political courage that has been shown by both the Palestinian and the Israeli leadership in recent times will require tangible benefits on the ground for their constituencies? In that respect will the meeting in London consider particularly the possibilities of achieving speedy economic development for those Palestinians living in Gaza?Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, indeed, we shall be doing exactly that. In answering the original Question from the noble Lord, Lord Wallace of Saltaire, I mentioned that we would be looking at the areas of governance, security and economic development. As regards economic development, we will seek to stimulate private sector growth and improve conditions to facilitate internal and external trade. We will also look forward to the possibility of a donor conference and of a meeting that will bring together private sector investors under the auspices of the World Bank. Therefore, the remarks of my noble friend Lady Hayman are well taken; indeed, work is going on in all areas in the economic sphere.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
1095: My Lords, will there be a pledging of any funds at this conference? I think we all agree that the main aim is a viable Palestinian state, and one which is not composed, as President Bush said, of a
1095Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, I agree with a great deal of what the noble Lord said about concerns. I should tell the noble Lord and the House that the Israeli Government have been consulted about the meeting next week. They have been consulted about the areas to be covered and, indeed, are broadly supportive of the sort of agenda that we will discuss next week. It is not, however, a donor conference in itself. It is not a conference where people will be formally invited to make financial pledges, although it will cover the areas of economic growth and activity that I detailed a moment ago to my noble friend Lady Hayman. Having said that it will not be a pledging conference, a number of countries have pledged money to the Palestinian Authority but have not as yet delivered on those promises. If they consider that next week is a good opportunity to do that, we will be delighted.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, does the Minister not agree that the encouraging reality for more and more moderate and sensible peace-loving Israelis—and an increasing number of members of the Likud party—is that the only true, genuine security and long-lasting peace for Israel will come by proper, full withdrawal from the occupied territories, including the West Bank, and a proper negotiation with a fully sovereign Palestinian state? That reality is increasingly striking even Mr Sharon. Will not Her Majesty's Government make a greater effort to ensure that he accepts those realities now?Lord Dykes
: My Lords, we do exactly as the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, suggested. No one for a moment pretends that the meeting next week will take the place of a proper negotiated settlement. That would come under phase 3 of the road map, when the final status issues—the all-important issues—of borders, refugees and the status of Jerusalem should be negotiated. The conference next week aims to put into place those matters that the Palestinians themselves have said that they need for building a future for statehood and to give them the type of backing that will enable them in the fullness of time—we hope in a matter of a very few years—to be able to have exactly those types of negotiations.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
1096: My Lords, since, in a democratic society, the institution of policing is important, and since the infrastructure of policing has been absolutely destroyed in the Palestinian territories during the Israeli
1096Lord Kilclooney
: My Lords, that is exactly what we have been doing. That is exactly what the United Kingdom has been engaged in for well over a year. It has been our view that it would perhaps be empty to call upon the Palestinians over and over again to do better on security, but to deny them the very capacity to deliver that security. That is why we have helped them in putting together a communications room in Ramallah, which is now being replicated in other parts of the West Bank and Gaza, so that there can be proper communications between security officers. That is also why we have gifted them police cars. The noble Lord is right—that practical level of support is vital and will continue.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, in relation to the point make by the noble Lord, Lord Wright, and other noble Lords, about security, is it not a hopeless position for the new premier of Palestine to be in that he must seek to control his own militants when there is continued building of homes for Israelis in the occupied territories? What are we doing about that?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: My Lords, words such as "hopeless" are really not helpful at the moment. This is the most hopeful that any of us who have been dealing with this issue have been for a very long time. So I hope that the noble Lord will reflect on his judgment that the position is hopeless. Of course there are problems. We have just discussed them. I raised the problems, not only of the settlement activity, but of the barrier. These are real concerns and we shall continue to go back to the Israelis over those points. But the situation is not hopeless, because the Palestinians themselves have said that they want to discuss, for example, clearer chains of command on security, the way in which their security services operate and more effective co-ordination between their security services. That is only part of the picture. Other issues, including good governance and economic development, are also vital and they are on the agenda next week.Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords—Lord Morris of Aberavon
: My Lords, having regard to the recent views of the appellate committee, are the Government satisfied that the powers sought are proportionate and fall within the tenor of their judgments?Lord Morris of Aberavon
1123: My Lords, is the noble Baroness aware that, as Speaker in 1999, I refused Sinn Fein admission to the House of Commons? The decision I took at the time was not based on the politics of Northern Ireland or Sinn Fein, rather it was based
1123Baroness Boothroyd
: My Lords, I wish to put a few questions to the Minister. First, accepting that the Government of this country have access to exactly the same information and evidence as that of the Republic, can the Minister confirm that our Government agree with the public statement of the Irish Minister of Justice that Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness were members of the Provisional IRA ruling army council? I have often heard the noble Baroness accept that the IRA and Sinn Fein are two sides of one coin, inextricably linked, and the same business. However, I should like to know whether she agrees with the statement of the Irish Minister. Secondly, is she comfortable with the fact that such people—we know how the Irish Government view them—may wander around this Palace, free to enter and leave it as they wish—confirmed terrorists?Viscount Brookeborough
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)11411140113911381137: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)11411140113911381137Lord McIntosh of Haringey
1204120312021201: My Lords, this is a difficult debate to sum up because there has not been a consistent thread throughout it. There have been, of course, those whose views I strongly respect who are against gambling altogether and wish we were not doing any of this. I have to address those noble Lords but I do not have any significant hope of converting them from a lifetime's convictions.1204120312021201Lord McIntosh of Haringey
1205: My Lords, I am very resistant to that. A simple calculation tells you that if you have 137 casinos, with a limit of 80 for small casinos, you would have more than 10,000 more machines in 137 locations. That is not what I call approaching the matter extremely gingerly or the precautionary principle. But let us talk about whether there is anything between those that we can do.1205Lord McIntosh of Haringey
1206: My Lords, there are many of us who are proud to call ourselves socialists, and always have been. However, I would remind the noble Lord. Lord Roberts, of the wise saying of his countryman, Aneurin Bevan, "Nothing's too good for the working class". If it is acceptable for the sons and daughters of gentlepersons to gamble in high-priced members' clubs—in streets that I had better not name, as the Gallery is full of casino representatives; I certainly will not name any streets where Stanley Leisure is represented—then it is good enough for the working class, and I do not apologise for that.1206Lord McIntosh of Haringey
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[4th Report from the Joint Committee].[4th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 21 December 2004 be approved (Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[4th Report from the Joint Committee].[4th Report from the Joint Committee].The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].[8th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 31 January be approved (Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].[8th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord McIntosh of Haringey
"protecting children and other vulnerable persons from being harmed or exploited by gambling".1175"Thus removing this 24-hour membership requirement, together with the proposals to increase the numbers and visibility of casinos, substantially undermines the cognitive strategies used to help problem gamblers"."like any other psychiatrist I have seen the huge damage gambling addiction can cause to patients and their families. The money that families and individuals need for everyday essentials is instead diverted into the pockets of the Treasury and the gambling industry. One of the key factors for problem gamblers to avoid the temptation to return to gambling is limiting their immediate access to casinos. This is greatly helped by the current 24-hour membership requirement","It is clearly a fact that if the facilities for gambling in a population increase, the total amount of gambling also increases. This affects all individuals in that population and inevitably leads to an increase in the number of those who gamble to such a degree that damage results".1174"Whilst the Casino Operators' Association (COA) recognises the need to modernise the 1968 Gaming Act and strengthen legislation to protect children and the vulnerable, it has fundamental concerns that the Gambling Bill offers inadequate safeguards against increased problem gambling and crime and money-laundering. Despite changes to the draft Bill, the proposed legislation remains strongly anti competition".1173: My Lords, I am afraid that the noble Lord, Lord Wade of Chorlton, is not able to speak and I therefore rise to say my piece. We are confronted here with another giant highly technical Bill comprising 225 pages. It constitutes a licence for us lawyers; we at least will do well out of it. I sincerely hope that by the time this Bill reaches the statute book one will be able to say that of the public as well.
"protecting children and other vulnerable persons from being harmed or exploited by gambling".1175"Thus removing this 24-hour membership requirement, together with the proposals to increase the numbers and visibility of casinos, substantially undermines the cognitive strategies used to help problem gamblers"."like any other psychiatrist I have seen the huge damage gambling addiction can cause to patients and their families. The money that families and individuals need for everyday essentials is instead diverted into the pockets of the Treasury and the gambling industry. One of the key factors for problem gamblers to avoid the temptation to return to gambling is limiting their immediate access to casinos. This is greatly helped by the current 24-hour membership requirement","It is clearly a fact that if the facilities for gambling in a population increase, the total amount of gambling also increases. This affects all individuals in that population and inevitably leads to an increase in the number of those who gamble to such a degree that damage results".1174"Whilst the Casino Operators' Association (COA) recognises the need to modernise the 1968 Gaming Act and strengthen legislation to protect children and the vulnerable, it has fundamental concerns that the Gambling Bill offers inadequate safeguards against increased problem gambling and crime and money-laundering. Despite changes to the draft Bill, the proposed legislation remains strongly anti competition".1173Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: My Lords, I am sorry to intervene, but I was merely pointing out that the number of socialists left on the Labour Benches diminishes by the day.Lord Greaves
Licensed, build that nation's fate"."The whore and the gambler, by the state11851184"money is like muck, not good except it be spread".1183"was that gambling was a social 'sin' to be tolerated but not encouraged"."The underlying philosophy at that time"—1182: My Lords, it has been fascinating to listen to the noble Lord, Lord Faulkner of Worcester, my noble friend Lord Falkland and other noble Lords. One thing is clear: the Bill is a good advertisement for pre-legislative scrutiny. I hope that it will also be applied to other complicated measures before they come to us.Licensed, build that nation's fate"."The whore and the gambler, by the state11851184"money is like muck, not good except it be spread".1183"was that gambling was a social 'sin' to be tolerated but not encouraged"."The underlying philosophy at that time"—1182Lord Greaves
11571156115511541153A Safe Bet for Success,: My Lords, as one of those who pressed the Government to commission a review of the gambling industry as far back as 1997, it would be churlish of me not to welcome the Bill—and I do.11571156115511541153A Safe Bet for Success,Lord Mancroft
: My Lords, it is the turn of the government Benches. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, will follow.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the principle on which we operate in relation to legal aid for defamation is that we do not think that in the normal case legal aid should be available, because the legal aid budget is stretched. In the area of civil legal aid, we believe that matters such as social exclusion, housing, debt problems and family problems come before financing defamation actions. I therefore think that the term "exceptional" is right; the barrier should be high before defamation proceedings are given money. I entirely agree with my noble friend: in those exceptional cases, one is seeking to achieve equality of arms between the big battalions and the little person who is trying to fight a libel action.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, the question is put in an impossible way. A company is entitled to have its reputation protected, like anyone else. Plainly, what went wrong is that a case lasting 313 days in court over two and a half years, the whole proceedings lasting for 10 years, could not possibly produce a just result.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, this was an exceptional case which did result in unfairness. We need to consider the judgment carefully and, if necessary, to learn lessons. We accept the Court's judgment on legal aid. The law was changed in the Access to Justice Act 1999 and funding can now be made available in defamation cases in exceptional circumstances. The judgment refers also to the need for the defendants' means to be taken into account in assessing damages. Given the usual principles of English law on compensation, which the libel damages in this case were, we are giving further consideration to the implications of this most unusual case.The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
1100Jarndyce v Jarndyce: My Lords, perhaps I may deal with the second part of the question first. On the basis of the judgment in the case, we do not intend to extend legal aid generally to defamation cases. As my noble friend rightly points out, Section 6(8)(b) of the Access to Justice Act 1999 allows funding in defamation cases in exceptional circumstances. That was introduced only after the McDonald's libel case to which the European Court judgment refers. We think that that deals with the problem identified in the McDonald's case. I pay tribute to my noble friend Lord Clinton-Davis because he was instrumental in including Section 6(8)(b) in the Bill, with the foresight for which he is famous.1100Jarndyce v JarndyceLord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, in relation to an overall review of the libel laws, our first step is to consider the effect of this judgment. I do not commit myself to an overall review of the libel laws, but I commit myself to a review of the effect of this judgment. In the light of that, we will then consider the overall position of the libel laws. As for who won and who lost in this case, McDonald's won in the English courts and received £40,000 damages. It lost in the European Court of Human Rights. The estimated costs that it spent in winning that £40,000 were £10 million. Draw your own conclusions as to whether it improved or deteriorated its reputation by doing that.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, a large element of demand for UK produce is in the hands of public sector bodies. What measures are being taken to help source local supplies under the Government's public procurement policy?Lord Grantchester
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, I believe that I am entitled to ask a supplementary question.Lord Clinton-Davis
1149"children and gambling don't mix".1148"children and gambling don't mix".1147: My Lords, I am pleased to be able to speak on this important legislation. We are all aware of the controversy that it has generated in the country at large, and it is good that we can finally turn our attention to some of the proposed measures.1149"children and gambling don't mix".1148"children and gambling don't mix".1147The Lord Bishop of Coventry
Daily Mail's1172Hansard.Daily MailDaily MailDaily MailA Safe Bet for Success.1171: My Lords, I must start by replying to a couple of points made by the noble Lord, Lord Roberts of Llandudno. The figures he gave for the increase in problem gambling that can be expected as a result of the Bill were both scary and without foundation. I am a member of the advisory board of the Centre for the Study of Gambling at Salford University. To summarise the views of Peter Collins, the well respected professor there, if you have more casinos alone you will have more problem gambling; if you have more casinos with the measures contained in the Bill to deal with problem gambling in place, you will not have more problem gambling. He believes that an increase cannot be expected on the basis of the international evidence, so we should be very wary of the noble Lord's predictions.Daily Mail's1172Hansard.Daily MailDaily MailDaily MailA Safe Bet for Success.1171Lord Lipsey
: I thank Members of the Committee who have spoken on this amendment for the various views that they have expressed, which have by and large been supportive. I say to the noble Lord, Lord Fitt, that although there may well be 100 categories of people, in my view there are two categories in particular. I refer to those who have written themselves off the register. They have been written to, canvassed and everything else, but their names are not on the register. As this Bill has not yet been amended, they will be put back anyway. This amendment would assist those who were never on the register in the first place. That includes young people in particular. Many of those young people may not understand that there is such a thing as an electoral register. They consider that when they are 18 they ought to be able to vote. They may go to a polling station and ask why they cannot vote as they have reached the age of 18. This amendment constitutes an opportunity to address that situation.Lord Shutt of Greetland
1130HansardHansard(2) An updated register shall be published no later than one week after the relevant date in subsection (1)."(1) For purposes of this Act, the last day for an elector to register under the rolling registration process shall be the day on which nominations for election close.
(2) An updated register shall be published no later than one week after the relevant date in subsection (1)."(1) For purposes of this Act, the last day for an elector to register under the rolling registration process shall be the day on which nominations for election close."ROLLING REGISTRATIONInsert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 3:
1130HansardHansard(2) An updated register shall be published no later than one week after the relevant date in subsection (1)."(1) For purposes of this Act, the last day for an elector to register under the rolling registration process shall be the day on which nominations for election close.
(2) An updated register shall be published no later than one week after the relevant date in subsection (1)."(1) For purposes of this Act, the last day for an elector to register under the rolling registration process shall be the day on which nominations for election close."ROLLING REGISTRATIONInsert the following new clause—Lord Shutt of Greetland
: My Lords, the forthright and absolute condemnation which has emanated from the Government and the financial penalties which are being imposed on Sinn Fein/IRA are welcome to many who have not trusted the IRA over a very long period. Does that mean that the period of appeasement is now over and that Northern Ireland can get back to real politics so that there can be proper devolution? That, of course, means proper elections to the Assembly, and the people who attain a majority will govern, either by themselves or in co-operation with others. I say that advisedly, because it really is clear now that power-sharing is unattainable in the short term and even the long term. It is only right that Northern Ireland should get back to having devolution to decide most policies in the north of that island.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords—Lord Ackner
: My Lords, the Minister has very fairly accepted that judicial review is not a process of appeal. It is a procedure to ensure that the Government have not exceeded their jurisdiction. It is a jurisdictional matter and a procedural matter.Lord Ackner
: My Lords, is it right that years of court time should be wasted by a large corporation with access to millions of pounds for advertising and so on to bring defamation proceedings against individuals without any resources? Cannot the libel laws be reconsidered in that regard?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has pointed to the flaw that cracks open this Bill. On the one hand, derogating orders are to be put before a High Court judge who will decide on the merits and may, if necessary, vary the conditions of the control order. Non-derogating orders, which are all that are proposed at the moment according to the Statement, are simply subject to judicial review and to all the limitations of judicial review, such as whether the Home Secretary has taken his decision properly or whether he has acted in a way that is so unreasonable that no sane Home Secretary could come to that decision. That is a very weak safeguard in relation to the liberty of the subject. Would it not be easy to relate the procedures for derogating orders that are proposed in the Bill to non-derogating orders, in which case many of the concerns expressed will be resolved?Lord Thomas of Gresford
1111in camera: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the provision of safeguards against terrorism have a parallel in the past in the provision of safeguards against espionage? The threat is the same. Surely, there are precedents, for example, in espionage cases at all levels which were heard 1111in cameraLord Hooson
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Cameron of Dillington
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I am disappointed but not surprised by it. Delighted as I am, of course, to have a conversation with the Minister, I am slightly surprised that a representative from the Department for Works and Pensions is not here to answer the Question.Lord Cameron of Dillington
: My Lords, is the noble Lord not surprised that the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, who is not in his place, is not here to congratulate the Government on encouraging people to get on their bikes?Lord Tordoff
1127: My Lords, there cannot be anyone in your Lordships' House or in the House of Commons who can feel any degree of optimism about the present situation in Northern Ireland. Let us analyse what has brought this about. It was the enormity of the money stolen from the Northern Bank coinciding with the brutal murder of the young IRA man.1127Lord Fitt
1132: Yesterday, when I first noticed that 83,000 people had failed to register to vote, I thought that was a very high and inflated figure. Northern Ireland has only a small electorate overall and 83,000 people who registered the previous year have refused to register this year.1132Lord Fitt
: My Lords, I wish to make a personal statement. Earlier today I inadvertently stated that the murder of Robert McCartney in Belfast was the murder of a young IRA man. What I had intended to say was that it was the IRA murder of a young man. I apologise to the House. I was of course talking about the IRA and the murders it has committed of innocent people.Lord Fitt
: My Lords, would my noble and learned friend care to say whether the phrase "exceptional circumstances" may set rather too high a hurdle for obtaining legal aid, because of the need for equality of arms between two sides in the case and for the court to receive adequate advice from both sides to reach the right result? Would he comment?Lord Borrie
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that his original Answer smacked very much of the old days of MAFF, with a detachment and failure to recognise that a healthy agriculture industry in this country is essential in the long term—I repeat, the long term?Lord Peyton of Yeovil
1170"It will need to bear in mind the Government's desire to see Britain become a world leader in the field of online gambling".The Future Regulation of Remote Gambling"Almost all the evidence we have received points to the fact that this legislation would increase the number of people in the United Kingdom with a gambling problem"."I do not accept that it will lead to an increase in problem gambling … If this legislation gave rise to an increase in problem gambling then it would have failed and would be bad legislation".1169: My Lords, I am completely overwhelmed by the knowledge with which we have been regaled today; it goes far beyond my experience.1170"It will need to bear in mind the Government's desire to see Britain become a world leader in the field of online gambling".The Future Regulation of Remote Gambling"Almost all the evidence we have received points to the fact that this legislation would increase the number of people in the United Kingdom with a gambling problem"."I do not accept that it will lead to an increase in problem gambling … If this legislation gave rise to an increase in problem gambling then it would have failed and would be bad legislation".1169Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: I can offer the noble Lord, Lord Fitt, a couple of reasons why people have not registered. Among young people there is total dismay and lack of interest in the political process in Northern Ireland because of the Government's continual demand that there must he inclusivity for devolution to be brought about in Northern Ireland. They know that that is no longer possible; they have lost interest in the political process and they are not interested in voting.Lord Kilclooney
1098: My Lords, I hesitate to defend my predecessor department, MAFF, because it had a bad reputation in certain respects. However misguided some of the policies that it and the European Union were occasionally engaged in, its concern for agricultural
1098Lord Whitty
: My Lords, my noble friend is correct to say that public procurement is a significant part of the market. One disturbing matter that we discovered in our analysis of the market was that the level of UK procurement in the public sector was lower than that which is obtained in the average supermarket. Therefore, we have taken steps, through the Public Sector Food Procurement Initiative, to ensure that departments ranging from prisons to the education service focus more on local and sustainable food. The effects of that are beginning to be seen through the system.Lord Whitty
1097: My Lords, there is no direct relationship between self-sufficiency levels and sustainability. The Government's Strategy for Sustainable Farming and Food has been promulgated and one key issue is to bring farmers closer to the market. By removing the link between subsidy and production through the CAP
1097Lord Whitty
: My Lords, that depends on how farmers react to the freedom that is given to them by the change in the single fann payment to move away from subsidy-induced patterns of production to those in which they can meet the highest demand and make the highest level of profitability. Although the noble Baroness is correct to say that the self-sufficiency figures have gone down, the volume and the value of production in the UK have gone up—or, rather, down and then up again—in approximately the same period, certainly since 1999. So there is no direct correlation between the two. I would hope that the change in the CAP would allow us to compete in export markets as well as our internal market.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, before I answer the noble Lord, perhaps the House will allow me to apologise to him because, in the reply I gave him on self-sufficiency on 9 February, I said that the figure was 72 per cent for self-sufficiency, when it was actually 74 per cent. That is a level of self-sufficiency of which no other industry could conceive. Therefore, agriculture is still doing pretty well in an increasingly liberalised market. The dairy sector is the wrong example to give in relation to self-sufficiency. While there are other problems there, we are virtually 100 per cent self-sufficient in the liquid milk market.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the noble Baroness is well aware that there are restrictions on what government can do under the European rules on state aid for promotion of British products within Britain. That constrains our action, although I fundamentally agree with her. There are indirect ways in which the Government and the industry promote British produce. But I would repeat that over 70 per cent of produce in the supermarkets is British—particularly in the areas with which the organisations to which she referred are concerned—and in the fresh meat market we are doing remarkably well. The publication she mentioned is a good analytical document, but I do not necessarily agree with all the conclusions.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, leaping to the defence of the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, as I always do in his absence or otherwise, he has always denied that particular saying. Nevertheless it has passed into mythology and therefore I believe that, in his absence, we can definitely include the noble Lord in support of these schemes.Lord Whitty
1093: My Lords, I do not know the answer to the second part of the noble Baroness's question. It is definitely a matter on which the DWP will have to communicate with her. The rural dimension of the scheme is a matter for Defra. As regards local exchanges, I ought perhaps to have the information with me but it would be sensible if my colleagues wrote to the noble Baroness about the number of jobcentres.1093Lord Whitty
: My Lords, by and large, they are two wheels but, as I have just explained, some forms of the scheme give subsidies to four wheels. The work is the work that the unemployed person would not otherwise be able to get or the training place that they would not otherwise be able to get to.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the national schemes which were originally directed through the Countryside Agency will become the responsibility of the RDAs and the schemes already in place will continue to be funded by them. Clearly schemes of this kind will be of interest to the RDAs' support for rural businesses as well as to bringing down the rate of rural unemployment.Lord Whitty
1092: My Lords, I am delighted that the noble Lord is delighted that I am answering his Question after all. He is correct to say that these schemes have in many cases proved hugely successful. Most of them involve the supply of a moped or a bicycle, but other subsidised transport schemes, driving lessons and advice come under the general heading of Wheels to Work. That demonstrates that these are essentially local schemes put together by local partners to fit local conditions. That is probably the secret of their success. Therefore moving to the noble Lord's original suggestion of a national system, which would inevitably be more prescriptive, is not the
1092Lord Whitty
: My Lords, Wheels to Work schemes are developed and run locally and, where appropriate, Jobcentre Plus contributes to local schemes.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: Before the noble Baroness the Lord President sits down, will she expand on what she said about the chief electoral officer having carried out research? We are not aware of that and it would be helpful if we knew what that research comprised.Lord Maginnis of Drumglass
1131: In my brief comments at Second Reading I indicated that the Bill was less than helpful to the conduct of elections in Northern Ireland and to the integrity of the electoral process. I have some sympathy with the point raised by the noble Lord, Lord Shutt of Greetland. I can see that he is endeavouring at least to bring forward proposals to help reduce the lack of registration. However, what he proposes would not succeed.1131Lord Maginnis of Drumglass
"If you have never gambled, you are precociously rare and probably terminally boring".1168"Gaming is a principle inherent in human nature"."Man is a gaming animal"."The next best thing to playing and winning is playing and losing. The main thing is to play"."The exhilaration of this form of economic existence is beyond my power to describe"."Probability is the very guide of life"."The more I reflect upon a great number of events, past or present, the more I recognise the effect of chance in all earthly things"."The God delights in odd numbers".116711661165: My Lords, I wish to declare several interests. I am currently the non-executive chairman of Stanley Leisure plc, a company that has been in the gambling business for practically 50 years, as have I. I am also a large shareholder in the company, and have been involved in various trade organisations over the same period."If you have never gambled, you are precociously rare and probably terminally boring".1168"Gaming is a principle inherent in human nature"."Man is a gaming animal"."The next best thing to playing and winning is playing and losing. The main thing is to play"."The exhilaration of this form of economic existence is beyond my power to describe"."Probability is the very guide of life"."The more I reflect upon a great number of events, past or present, the more I recognise the effect of chance in all earthly things"."The God delights in odd numbers".116711661165Lord Steinberg
: My Lords, I am sorry. I did not look up at the clock. Anyway, children represent a very large problem in regard to gambling. Whether it is possible to stop children gambling in amusement arcades, I do not know. I honestly think that the culture is too deeply ingrained. Children ought, however, to be taught about gambling and its dangers. Having said that, I shall take the advice of the noble Lord and sit down.Viscount Falkland
vingt et un116111601159Chaban-Delmaspari mutuel1158"almost all relevant British gambling legislation predates the Internet. Nobody had such a powerful communications system in mind when that legislation was being enacted".: My Lords, first of all, I apologise. I missed the first few minutes of the debate today as I was unexpectedly delayed in getting to the House. I shall read the Minister's speech, although I think I am familiar with much of its content, having served on the pre-legislative scrutiny committee, as mentioned by the noble Lord, Lord Mancroft. I do not know how many of your Lordships have read the report of the committee. A great deal of water has passed beneath the bridge since the report was published and the Bill has substantially changed.vingt et un116111601159Chaban-Delmaspari mutuel1158"almost all relevant British gambling legislation predates the Internet. Nobody had such a powerful communications system in mind when that legislation was being enacted".Viscount Falkland
Companion to the Standing Orders: My Lords, I apologise for interrupting the noble Viscount, Lord Falkland, but if we look at the Companion to the Standing OrdersLord Evans of Temple Guiting
Georgianu: Duchess of Devonshire,1146Guardian1145: My Lords, I will come to the issue of Blackpool in a few minutes. However, I remember as a boy my father once taking me to Blackpool and going to a show in which Charlie Chester was addressing the audience. He was talking about the neighbouring town of St Anne's. He said, "St Anne's—yes, it is beautifully laid out. I don't know how long it has been dead, but it is beautifully laid out."Georgianu: Duchess of Devonshire,1146Guardian1145Lord Jopling
1109: My Lords, I add my thanks to the Minister for repeating the Statement in your Lordships' House. I also ask the Minister to convey our thanks to the Secretary of State for the discussion that he has conducted with my party and the trouble that he has taken to explain the Government's position on the Part 4 powers, following the Law Lords' judgment. I also add my thanks to the police and the security services for the way in which they help us in protecting our citizens.1109Lord Dholakia
11771176: My Lords, I welcome the Bill, both in its objective of modernising the UK gambling laws and its attempt to do so while addressing many of the concerns of problem gambling. I appreciate the concerns that the noble Lord. Lord Phillips, outlined. I have for the past five years been involved in a web hosting company, with many of our customers being online gaming companies.11771176Lord St John of Bletso
: My Lords, I too express thanks not just for the repetition of the Statement but for the coolness with which it was delivered and with which the Minister responded. That quality is extremely important if we are to discuss this situation carefully. It is clear from the tone of the Statement and the Minister's replies that the profound nature of the decisions that face us is in the Government's mind. I appreciate that.The Lord Bishop of Worcester
1125: My Lords, the murder of Mr McCartney—incidentally, a father of two—has already been referred to. Is the Minister aware that we were very lucky not to lose a second life, after a very
1125Lord Hylton
: My Lords, will the Minister add a further word about witnesses?Lord Hylton
Official Report,"the Bill is essential because without such legislation, gambling technology is leaving the law in its wake. If we do not modernise, people will not be protected. Without the Bill, there would be no gambling commission with the objective of social responsibility in gambling at its heart, internet gaming would continue to go unregulated, and there would be no powers to deal with roulette machines in bookmakers' shops."—[Official Report,118111801179"stopped many of the bill's worst features in their tracks"."saved her [the Secretary of State] and us [the country] from disaster"Guardian1178: My Lords, I start by thanking my noble friend Lord McIntosh of Haringey for the clear and straightforward way in which he introduced the Bill. Those of us who have been following the subject over recent months or, indeed, years, know that it has not been easy for him or his ministerial colleagues in the Department for Culture, Media and Sport and I certainly pay tribute to him for the way in which he stood up to that criticism and has robustly defended the Bill today.Official Report,"the Bill is essential because without such legislation, gambling technology is leaving the law in its wake. If we do not modernise, people will not be protected. Without the Bill, there would be no gambling commission with the objective of social responsibility in gambling at its heart, internet gaming would continue to go unregulated, and there would be no powers to deal with roulette machines in bookmakers' shops."—[Official Report,118111801179"stopped many of the bill's worst features in their tracks"."saved her [the Secretary of State] and us [the country] from disaster"Guardian1178Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: My Lords, will the Minister address the fact that the dairy farming industry has been seriously affected, because it cannot, at present, produce milk at a profit? It is not subsidised. Given that self-sufficiency rates have decreased by more than 10 per cent in the past 10 years, what impact has that made on the balance of payments and how many billions of pounds is that worth?Lord Livsey of Talgarth
11631162: My Lords, I declare, as did the Minister, an interest: I was a sitting magistrate for 20 years, including six years at Great Yarmouth. I am not sure whether it is the Blackpool of the east coast or whether Blackpool is the Great Yarmouth of the west coast. I am not sure. I am also vice-president of the East Anglian Tourist Board, and still keep up with tourism interests. It is from that background that I worked as one your Lordships' members on the pre-legislative committee. I was the only Cross-Bencher. I
11631162Lord Walpole
: I was not going to speak but the Front Bench opposite may guess as to why I am on my feet in the interests of the continuation of the business of the Committee.Lord Glentoran
1120"We are no longer prepared to accept the farce that Sinn Fein and the IRA are separate. They are indivisible"?: My Lords, I thank the Lord President of the Council for repeating the Statement made by the Secretary of State in the other place. I begin by recognising the tremendously good work that both the PSNI and the Garda Siochana have done in recent days in getting so quickly on to the trail of the Northern Bank robbery and other heists.1120"We are no longer prepared to accept the farce that Sinn Fein and the IRA are separate. They are indivisible"?Lord Glentoran
1194sui generis11931192Daily Mail1191"We have found the issue of gaming machines to be one of the most difficult we have tackled".: My Lords, I thank the Minister for introducing the Bill with his customary forcefulness and clarity. Getting to this point has been a long and tortuous process. As a newcomer on these issues in the House, I pay tribute to the quality of the debate and express my respect for the expertise which has been displayed by, in particular, those who have been involved in the scrutiny process, with the Joint Select Committee and the inquiry into the effects of betting on sport carried out by the All-Party Group on Betting and Gaming under the chairmanship of the noble Lord, Lord Faulkner of Worcester. Noble Lords have today revealed much racier pasts, certainly in the case of my noble friend Lord Greaves, than I ever anticipated hearing.1194sui generis11931192Daily Mail1191"We have found the issue of gaming machines to be one of the most difficult we have tackled".Lord Clement-Jones
1124: My Lords, the Minister said that she regretted the events she had described. Is there not one sense in which. to those who believed that Sinn Fein/IRA were not yet totally committed to non-violence and exclusively peaceful and democratic means, what happened as a result of this robbery is quite valuable? The facts are as they have been reported, and the guilt is as attributed by the British and Irish Governments, revealing that Sinn Fein/IRA have not moved as the Government had hoped they had moved.1124Lord King of Bridgwater
1144: They even came from Yorkshire.1144Lord McNally
1143Official Report,"many parts of the Bill have a great deal of support on both sides of the House … for example, the provisions concerning Internet gambling, tougher social responsibility requirements. and a tougher regulator in the shape of the gambling commission".—[Official Report,1142: My Lords, perhaps it would be best if I started with a non-declaration of interests: I once worked for a public relations company, but I no longer do so. For anybody looking for ulterior motives for the speech that I am about to deliver, there is none—although there is a passion, which I shall come to later.1143Official Report,"many parts of the Bill have a great deal of support on both sides of the House … for example, the provisions concerning Internet gambling, tougher social responsibility requirements. and a tougher regulator in the shape of the gambling commission".—[Official Report,1142Lord McNally
115211511150: My Lords, I rise to take up one or two points of concern about the Bill. I recognise immediately that the Government have been listening to legitimate concerns during the passage of the Bill, which has been improved as a consequence. However, there is much more to be done to improve the Bill further and even at this late stage I am hopeful that further concessions can be made following this debate.115211511150Lord Pendry
: If all the stops were pulled out, I believe that it would be possible to do this. However, I accept that within the bureaucracy there is no inclination to pull out all the stops and it is, therefore, probably impractical. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Smith of Clifton
1128Page 1. line 18, leave out from "Officer" to end of line 19 and insert "shall conduct an additional canvass in respect of such former electors"moved Amendment No. 1:
1128Page 1. line 18, leave out from "Officer" to end of line 19 and insert "shall conduct an additional canvass in respect of such former electors"Lord Smith of Clifton
1121: My Lords, I too thank the noble Baroness for repeating the Statement. I also thank the Secretary of State for making the Statement available to us earlier in the day and for meeting us to explain his reasons.1121Lord Smith of Clifton
My Lords: My LordsLord Goodhart
: Hear, hear!Lord Wallace of Saltaire
1112: My Lords, I should like to add my thanks to those already given to my noble friend for her normal extraordinary courtesy in consulting those of us with a longstanding interest in the matter. I fear it means that she had to endure my Second Reading speech a little while ago, so I shall not inflict it on her again.1112Baroness Hayman
1164: My Lords, the British gambling industry is well respected and well regulated. Our 136 casinos have given little or no trouble, and neither have our betting shops, bingo halls, seaside arcades or adult gaming centres. But times change; gambling has changed, in part driven by technology. With the advent of remote betting, online gambling, betting exchanges and new machines, the industry has moved with the times, and the Government need to as well.1164Baroness Golding
: My Lords, my question will, rather predictably, be on policing. In replying to a question about reviewing the Northern Ireland Organised Crime Taskforce, the noble Baroness said that she would look at one of the agencies of PSNI. There are other officers who will be involved in the investigation, and parts of Northern Ireland have very severe problems of criminality. In order to ensure that the PSNI has the resources it needs to tackle these matters, will she seek to extend the review of the Northern Ireland Organised Crime Taskforce to include the entire Police Service of Northern Ireland?Baroness Harris of Richmond
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clauses 19 to 59,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,
Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clauses 19 to 59,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clauses 19 to 59,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,
Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clauses 19 to 59,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: My Lords, I suggest that we now need to raise some issues on which Sinn Fein can, or cannot, show good faith. One would be to ensure that people who were exiled from their communities in Northern Ireland by the IRA paramilitaries over the past several years should be allowed to return. I seem to remember that that issue was raised with Mr McGuinness about 18 months ago. He said that he did not think that it would be for the good of the community. Could that perhaps be one of the tests we apply to whether they wish to reform their ways in terms of restricting and abolishing the powers of the paramilitaries to run communities?Baroness Park of Monmouth
11901189"The addiction still affects me now in that I am still paying off debts due to gambling and because I am still tempted to gamble now. As a child, playing on these fruit machines caused me to steal and truant, and the effects of these things have had a major impact on my life"."I finally hit rock bottom when I spent over £1,000 in 3 days on gambling and was found out by my family. This was when I had to face up to it, and despite a lot of hurt I live my life normally now. I believe that I have been able to turn away from gambling for many reasons including the support I have received but I believe a lot is down to the fact that I am an adult now and am able to understand the consequences of my actions better."As I got older and at 16 went to college I started to go into bookmakers and play on the higher value machines as well as starting to gamble on the horses and the greyhounds. After six months of college I had to drop out as I had not attended college enough as I had been gambling. This was all very secretive because I didn't want people to know how much or how often I gambled because inevitably the question would come up as to where my finance came from. Of course the answer is that it was stolen, from my family, from my friends and from my workplace. I'm deeply ashamed of this and am still trying to pay some of these debts back now."When I was 14, I was allowed out of my school grounds at lunch times and would often go to the local bowling alley where there were 5p fruit machines and would spend my lunch money plus any more I could get my hands on. At this stage sometimes I would get lucky and win a jackpot but for some reason I would always end up putting it back in so I guess even then by this stage I was properly addicted."My name is Mark. I am now 23 years old and live and work in South London. I can't remember exactly when I started gambling but it started to be something I specifically remember enjoying when I was about 12 or 13. This was playing on fruit machines in the arcades when we used to go on holiday to Weymouth in Dorset. Even at this stage, the continuous buzz of the fruit machine got me hooked and I often ended up spending most or all of my holiday pocket money.1188: My Lords, the last speaker must face the fact that almost everything has already been said, but on the other hand there is the prospect that you can say anything you like about what others have said and there is nothing they can do about it. This Bill has been a long time coming, and on reading it I wondered why the Government did not save themselves from a certain amount of confusion in the media, already alluded to by my noble friend Lord Lipsey, in having to explain at every turn that 80 per cent of the Bill is about control, protection and regulation by naming it for what it does: the regulation of gambling Bill.11901189"The addiction still affects me now in that I am still paying off debts due to gambling and because I am still tempted to gamble now. As a child, playing on these fruit machines caused me to steal and truant, and the effects of these things have had a major impact on my life"."I finally hit rock bottom when I spent over £1,000 in 3 days on gambling and was found out by my family. This was when I had to face up to it, and despite a lot of hurt I live my life normally now. I believe that I have been able to turn away from gambling for many reasons including the support I have received but I believe a lot is down to the fact that I am an adult now and am able to understand the consequences of my actions better."As I got older and at 16 went to college I started to go into bookmakers and play on the higher value machines as well as starting to gamble on the horses and the greyhounds. After six months of college I had to drop out as I had not attended college enough as I had been gambling. This was all very secretive because I didn't want people to know how much or how often I gambled because inevitably the question would come up as to where my finance came from. Of course the answer is that it was stolen, from my family, from my friends and from my workplace. I'm deeply ashamed of this and am still trying to pay some of these debts back now."When I was 14, I was allowed out of my school grounds at lunch times and would often go to the local bowling alley where there were 5p fruit machines and would spend my lunch money plus any more I could get my hands on. At this stage sometimes I would get lucky and win a jackpot but for some reason I would always end up putting it back in so I guess even then by this stage I was properly addicted."My name is Mark. I am now 23 years old and live and work in South London. I can't remember exactly when I started gambling but it started to be something I specifically remember enjoying when I was about 12 or 13. This was playing on fruit machines in the arcades when we used to go on holiday to Weymouth in Dorset. Even at this stage, the continuous buzz of the fruit machine got me hooked and I often ended up spending most or all of my holiday pocket money.1188Baroness Thornton
caveat emptor11871186: My Lords, it has been illuminating to listen to the differing views and expertise expressed on this subject. I have learnt a lot, as, I imagine, have others of your Lordships. There is obviously support for much of the Bill. Clearly, a huge amount of work went into pre-legislative scrutiny and debates in the other place. As a result, many important changes have already been made.caveat emptor11871186Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, the Minister will know that Defra released figures in January, which showed that the UK's self-sufficiency of indigenous food has fallen by 9 per cent since 1997. Given that situation, what assessment have the Government made of the likely further decline of UK food production following the introduction of the single farm payment?Baroness Byford
: My Lords, how many schemes have been set up particularly with regard to bicycles, mopeds and other forms of transport? How many rural jobcentres are there and how many have been closed within the past four years?Baroness Byford
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Byford
1108"I said that the power of detention is at present confined to foreigners and I would not like to give the impression that all that was necessary was to extend the power to United Kingdom citizens as well. In my opinion, such a power in any form is not compatible with our constitution".: My Lords, I thank the Minister for repeating the Statement made by the Home Secretary in another place a short while ago. I also thank the Home Secretary for his courteous offer of briefings to me and my colleagues over the last week.1108"I said that the power of detention is at present confined to foreigners and I would not like to give the impression that all that was necessary was to extend the power to United Kingdom citizens as well. In my opinion, such a power in any form is not compatible with our constitution".Baroness Anelay of St Johns
11071106"an obligation to remain in his/her home at all times","requirement to remain in a particular place at all times",1105"strictly required by the exigencies of the situation"."state of public emergency threatening the life of the nation",11041103: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall now repeat a Statement made by my right honourable friend the Home Secretary in another place. The Statement is as follows:11071106"an obligation to remain in his/her home at all times","requirement to remain in a particular place at all times",1105"strictly required by the exigencies of the situation"."state of public emergency threatening the life of the nation",11041103The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, 1 thank my noble friend Lady Hayman for those comments. I understand the anxiety that she has expressed. I can see why she should suggest that it would be more comfortable if we could undertake the two parts together; namely, the legislation on changing the ability to prosecute that we hope to be able to bring forward when parliamentary time permits. and this matter. We are faced with a situation in which that simply is not possible. As the Part 4 powers need to be renewed by the 14th of next month and we are not in a position to introduce other legislation before then, we find ourselves in the unenviable and uncomfortable position of not being sure whether it would be lawful and proper for us, as has been suggested, to extend the Part 4 powers.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1113: My Lords, of course I hear what the noble Lord says. Perhaps I can help him and the House about why we disagree. All steps that we take have to be proportionate in relation to restrictions on liberty. The restriction on liberty in the non-derogating orders falls short of a denial of liberty in terms of free movement. Therefore, it is proportionate to say
1113Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1110: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Anelay of St Johns, and the noble Lord, Lord Dholakia, for their thanks for the efforts that we have made. I also thank them in particular for their tone. All of us recognise how difficult the situation is and that we need to strive energetically to find a solution that best meets the extreme nature of the circumstances in which we find ourselves. The Home Secretary has considered the
1110Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, of course in the past there have been cases on very difficult issues, such as espionage, and they have been dealt with. That is why I reiterated that, where possible, the Government's preferred course is to prosecute. The situation in which we find ourselves in relation to the small number of individuals who have been subject to Part 4 powers is simply that it has not been possible to prosecute them using any of the usual strategies that we have available to us. That is why we seek a separate and different situation.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1116: My Lords, first, for the reasons that I just gave in answer to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew, and, secondly, because of practicality. It may be that information comes before my right honourable friend the Home Secretary or his counterpart in any future government that clearly demands immediate action. In those circumstances, it would be simply practical and easier for that decision to be made and for it to be very quickly reviewed.1116Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1114: My Lords, of course the right reverend Prelate is right. At one level, we all share responsibility for the safety of the nation, both as individual citizens and as parliamentarians either in this House or another place.
1114Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1115: My Lords, we do. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew, puts his finger on one of the issues in terms of balance. That is why we say that it is important for the Home Secretary who is charged with that responsibility to make a decision. It is a decision that is then scrutinised by the judiciary exercising its proper judicial function about whether that decision was a right and proper one. When the House looks at the stumbling blocks that have been put in the way of the exercise of that decision, it will see the equivalent of four locks. That is why it is correct that the executive—in the form of the Home Secretary—should make the original decision, accept that responsibility that is the government's and his and then and only then should the court exercise its judicial function in checking whether the Home Secretary is right. That is the best way to do that, both constitutionally and practically.1115Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, my noble and learned friend rightly asks that question; we are so satisfied. One of the most taxing and difficult tasks that we have undertaken in the past two months is to come to a resolution that does two things: first, it takes the necessary steps, which we have to take, to keep our country safe—that is our overriding criterion; and, secondly, it does that in a way that would enable us to comply with the judgment of the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords, which we accept, as is proper.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
120011991198"Communities must be given the opportunity to express their concerns and fears in the planning process—and these concerns and fears must be listened to".119711961195: My Lords, this has been an interesting and in some respects a difficult debate. So many diverse and often conflicting interests are watching with real concern to see whether this Bill will make the statute book and, if so, the form it will take.
120011991198"Communities must be given the opportunity to express their concerns and fears in the planning process—and these concerns and fears must be listened to".119711961195Baroness Buscombe
: My Lords, perhaps I may interrupt the Minister. I said that we should have a more equitable arrangement. I am not looking for parity between existing casino estate and new entrants, but I would like to see a significant increase in the number of machines. The noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones, referred to a significant increase, but not for category A, only for category B.Baroness Buscombe
Farming Industry Marketing Strategy: My Lords, has the Minister seen the Farming Industry Marketing StrategyBaroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, as the noble Lord, Lord Cameron, rightly said, the schemes benefit enormously young people seeking work. But is the Minister aware how much they benefit also small and medium-sized rural enterprises, which are then able to access a very energetic, young and enthusiastic work force? I was speaking only last week to one such person in north Devon. Given their effect on the rural economy overall, does the Minister consider that the RDAs should fund such schemes if the Government have no intention of introducing a national scheme?Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
1134: I said that research is currently being carried out. However, I also said that we have speculated on a number of reasons for the 83,000 people not reregistering. Undoubtedly, individual registration raises difficulties as regards the disadvantaged, the marginalised and those in so-called hard to reach groups. The chief electoral officer has put in place a range of measures to try to address that issue. Research is being
1134Baroness Amos
1133: I am sorry to disappoint the noble Lord, Lord Shutt, but, despite the different possibilities he has presented to me, the amendment is not required.1133Baroness Amos
'ongoing paramilitary activity, sectarian violence and criminality masquerading as a political cause are all corrosive of the trust and confidence that are necessary to sustain a durable political process'.111911181117: My Lords, I would like to repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. The Statement is as follows:'ongoing paramilitary activity, sectarian violence and criminality masquerading as a political cause are all corrosive of the trust and confidence that are necessary to sustain a durable political process'.111911181117The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
1122: My Lords, some general themes have threaded through the comments of the noble Lords, Lord Glentoran and Lord Smith of Clifton. I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Clifton, in regretting the circumstances that have made today's Statement necessary.1122Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the noble Viscount's second question about access to Parliament gives me an opportunity to answer a question which was raised earlier. With respect to what form any further sanctions against Sinn Fein might take, that is a matter to be debated in another place in the coming weeks. The decision is for the other place.Baroness Amos
: My Lords. I am well aware of the history that the noble Baroness, Lady Boothroyd, has just outlined. On the question of possible sanctions, that is a matter for the other place. It will be debated in the coming weeks and the nature of the Motion to be tabled by the Government is currently being determined. Once it is agreed it will be printed on the Order Paper, but I shall be happy to draw it to the attention of the noble Baroness when it is ready.Baroness Amos
1126: My Lords, I recognise the strength of feeling of the noble Baroness, Lady Park of
1126Baroness Amos
: My Lords, we are trying to achieve the restoration of devolution but let me repeat what I said in the Statement. It is very difficult, given the state of the parties in the Assembly. and in the absence of a clear plan which would see those parties come together on a cross-community basis, to form a government of Northern Ireland. I remind the noble Lord, Lord Stoddart of Swindon, that there have been elections and that part of the process was to try to find a way to restore devolution. That has not been possible in the current political climate.Baroness Amos
: The amendment would fundamentally change the nature of the Bill by requiring the chief electoral officer, as the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Clifton, indicated, to conduct a canvass of the 83,000 former electors before adding them on to the register. Currently, the Bill permits reinstatement on the register of individuals who were on the register prior to the publication of the register on 1 December 2004 but did not re-register during the annual canvass in 2004, provided the chief electoral officer has no information to suggest that they are no longer eligible to be on the register. The effect of having a canvass would be to require the chief electoral officer to send forms to all those people asking confirmation of their name, address, date of birth, national insurance number and signature. Only upon receiving satisfactory answers to those questions would they be added back on to the register.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I say briefly to the noble Lord, Lord Fitt, that even if you take out Sinn Fein, the other parties in Northern Ireland have not worked out a basis on which they might work together.Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the proposed review is of the Organised Crime Taskforce, as the noble Baroness, Lady Harris of Richmond, has outlined. With respect to extending the review and looking at the issue of resources—the noble Baroness has raised the issue of resources on other occasions—she will be aware that we consult with the PSNI and the chief constable on a regular basis. The issue of resourcing is a key element of those discussions. We have been assured that the resources currently available are appropriate to the task, but this is obviously something we will keep under constant review. I shall ensure that the comments of the noble Baroness are referred to my honourable friend the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.Baroness Amos
"Since completing work on that report we have been able to consider in depth the significant further material which has become available about some of these incidents.": My Lords, we all recognise that we are at a crucial stage. Action taken now will determine what happens in the future. But the Government's commitments remain absolutely clear: first, to work towards an inclusive, power sharing agreement for Northern Ireland; secondly, absolute clarity that crime and criminality cannot he a part of that process."Since completing work on that report we have been able to consider in depth the significant further material which has become available about some of these incidents."Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I am not aware of the point being made by the noble Lord, but I shall, of course, write.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Hylton, will understand that I cannot comment on the specifics of a live investigation. However, the chief constable has publicly said that, at this stage, PSNI does not believe that the Provisional IRA, as an organisation, was responsible for the murder of Mr McCartney—even if it turns out that those who committed the murder were members of the Provisional IRA. A distinction is clearly being made between individuals and the organisation.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, is there not a great danger here to the constitutional standing of judges? As the Minister said, their role is to uphold our liberties. The Government propose to wheel in the judiciary again to draw the constitutional sting that is inherent in these proposals.Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: Oh!Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
: Noah!Noble Lords
: My Lords, I declare an interest as chairman of the Forestry Commission. Does the Minister appreciate that trees are wonderful at carbon sequestration? While they are growing, they capture the carbon and while they are being used, they store it. Is he aware that 50 per cent of new houses in Scotland are timber-framed, but that only 10 per cent of those in England are? Will he have discussions with the Building Research Establishment to see if that percentage in England can be increased to capture more carbon when we build our houses?Lord Clark of Windermere
: My Lords, have Her Majesty's Government ratified the charter? If they have, roughly, what is the effect on our law?Lord Campbell of Alloway
"The question of further investment in nuclear power should attract more attention in the EU, as worries about climate change increase"."nuclear power generates no carbon dioxide emissions … though there are serious arguments about the disposal of waste".1301"flowing for four miles from a high pass on the border with Georgia, before making a right-angle turn towards the north and continuing for another six miles".: My Lords, I rise to make this short contribution to the debate on climate change with some trepidation. When the Minister, the noble Lord. Lord Whitty, was General Secretary of the Labour Party, he was my boss. The noble Lord, Lord Davies of Oldham, the Government Deputy Chief Whip, was my predecessor in my previous post. He relieved me somewhat by leaving at the start of the debate, giving me what I hope was a cheery nod."The question of further investment in nuclear power should attract more attention in the EU, as worries about climate change increase"."nuclear power generates no carbon dioxide emissions … though there are serious arguments about the disposal of waste".1301"flowing for four miles from a high pass on the border with Georgia, before making a right-angle turn towards the north and continuing for another six miles".Lord Haworth
12911290: My Lords, I know that I should not say this, but I was disappointed in this debate. The subject of the debate as on the Order Paper was so interesting and so important—the adequacy of official statistics for the determination of policy. I thought that there might be some constructive contributions as to the way in which statistics might be made more adequate for the purpose of the determination of policy. We discussed some interesting issues: the issue of public trust in statistics; a number of particular difficulties that have occurred in statistics over the past few years; the organisation of statistics; and the independence of the statistics office. All of those are interesting and to some extent important, and it is my duty and pleasure to reply to that debate, but I would have liked the debate to be more about what we could do.12911290The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
1293Financial TimesFinancial Times;1292: My Lords, that is not the subject matter of the debate. I shall come to the point with particular reference to health, but I shall press on to road maintenance, which was referred to by the noble Lords, Lord Northbrook and Lord Oakeshott.1293Financial TimesFinancial Times;1292Lord McIntosh of Haringey
12361235"In the pre-election campaign, the language is 'controlled', 'managed' 'immigration' and 'asylum'; but much of the electorate is hearing 'stop'. 'black', 'foreign' and 'Muslim".Independent1234: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for introducing this debate. I agreed with perhaps his first two sentences, but he and I have been disagreeing on these issues for around 35 years, which we will no doubt continue to do.12361235"In the pre-election campaign, the language is 'controlled', 'managed' 'immigration' and 'asylum'; but much of the electorate is hearing 'stop'. 'black', 'foreign' and 'Muslim".Independent1234Lord Greaves
13131312"The present is the key to the past".: My Lords, I, too, congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Renton, and his committee on an interesting and readable report. I welcome the noble Lord, Lord Haworth, to the House to join the small number of mountaineers here. If the trend goes on, we may even get a trip up some time.13131312"The present is the key to the past".Lord Greaves
: My Lords, in the speech to which my noble friend referred, Sir David King also said that the Government should be looking at small-scale Chinese pebble-bed nuclear reactors. Will the Minister tell us what they are and whether the Government are seriously considering them?Lord Greaves
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Greaves
1212: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply and note that he has confirmed that the
1212Lord Greaves
: My Lords, the Government have subsidised council tax this year, just before an election, with something like £1 billion extra money. Is that permanent money or will it be withdrawn next year before the settlement is discussed?Lord Greaves
1231"This country needs migration—tourists, students and migrant workers make a vital contribution to the UK economy. But we need to ensure that we let in migrants with the skills and talents to benefit Britain, while stopping those trying to abuse our hospitality and place a burden on our society".1230"Each year there are millions of visitors to our shores. We have global communications, global economies and global movement of people. We have to adapt to these developments, not by putting up the shutters, but by managing, controlling and selecting".Independent1229: My Lords, on entering the debate, I cannot help reflecting on that Russian proverb which says that to travel hopefully is better than to arrive. Can we have a measured debate on immigration in the somewhat febrile atmosphere of a pre-election period?1231"This country needs migration—tourists, students and migrant workers make a vital contribution to the UK economy. But we need to ensure that we let in migrants with the skills and talents to benefit Britain, while stopping those trying to abuse our hospitality and place a burden on our society".1230"Each year there are millions of visitors to our shores. We have global communications, global economies and global movement of people. We have to adapt to these developments, not by putting up the shutters, but by managing, controlling and selecting".Independent1229Lord Young of Norwood Green
12761275: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Marlesford, for introducing this subject, which is close to my heart after a lifetime spent in statistics.12761275Lord Moser
1239: My Lords, I had the good fortune—I hope that he thinks the same of me— of travelling to Pakistan with the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, who proved to be a good and affable companion. But that does not stop him from suffering from tunnel vision when it comes to issues of asylum and immigration. All who take his point of view argue about balancing, moderation and immigration. Then they embark on the most immoderate of approaches and, unfortunately, that was the case today. Hardly a word emerged from his lips about those who are leaving the United Kingdom. Fortunately, some sort of balance has been applied in this debate. and I thank all those who have participated.1239Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, may I give a practical example of where I hope that the new constitution would help workers? At the moment two unions—one that 1 used to lead—are suing my Government because they believe that the Government are in breach of a directive on safeguarding workers' pensions. Will the new constitution help that type of situation?Lord Brookman
: My Lords, will my noble friend note that unions right across Europe have welcomed the Charter of Fundamental Rights? An analogy would be the Highway Code, which is a code rather than the specifics of the law on driving a motorcar. Nevertheless, the philosophy built into the charter protects the workers of Europe against any negative changes and underpins the improvements for part-time workers, fixed-term contract workers, and equal opportunities that we have seen under the Social Chapter in the past 10 years.Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords, I very much agree. The charter showcases the key social and economic principles and rights that the Union's institutions are bound to observe. Again, that is important and is stated very clearly.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
1209: My Lords, we are talking here about the constitution, of which the
1209Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, the constitution is clear, and the role of the social partners at union level is explicitly stated. It is also stated that the unions shall facilitate dialogue between the social partners. The constitution recognises the interests of unions and workers, and it is in their interests to support the constitution.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, I agree that we need to get more people to focus on this legislation and on what it actually says. As people do that, it will become clear what the powers are. Without quoting in detail from the text, a number of articles specifically cover this point, and they make the answer clear.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, we do not believe that the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which forms Part 2 of the EU constitutional treaty, will have any direct or indirect effects on the rights of trade unions in the UK. The charter is a showcase of existing fundamental rights; it does not create any new ones. The charter is addressed to the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, with due regard to the principle of subsidiarity and to the member states only when they are implementing European Union law.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Trade and Industry (Lord Sainsbury of Turville)
: My Lords, there is no need for the Government to publish any documents on this. If people read the document and the relevant clauses carefully, it is clear what it says.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, this is not a debate on the European constitution, which we will no doubt cover in great detail. A "no" vote would be disastrous for the whole of this country, including the trade unions.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, I think that I am right in saying that already built into the constitution are questions of law that relate to trade union matters. I was simply making the point that the constitutional treaty does not alter that situation. However, provisions have been built into it that are very important for trade unions.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, my remarks addressed the question of the constitutional treaty—the total treaty—of which the charter is a fundamental part. My Answer related to the whole of the constitutional treaty.Lord Sainsbury of Turville
: My Lords, is the noble Lord aware that some people who have experience of local government are not very happy with government money flooding to local authorities and believe that local authorities should have the power to raise more of their own money? In conjunction with the report on the investigation into revaluation, can he say whether the Government would consider returning responsibility for the business rate to local authorities and whether they should find other forms of income which would help them to balance their books rather than be beholden to the Government?Lord Stoddart of Swindon
122112201219"The 'pace of change' … is simply too great at present … inward migration does create tensions … communities will perceive that newcomers are in competition for scarce resources and public services … The pressure on resources … is often intense and local services are often insufficient to meet the needs of the existing local communities, let alone newcomers".The End of Parallel Lives?1218rose to call attention to immigration and asylum controls for the maintenance of good race relations, national security and the provision of public services; and to move for Papers.122112201219"The 'pace of change' … is simply too great at present … inward migration does create tensions … communities will perceive that newcomers are in competition for scarce resources and public services … The pressure on resources … is often intense and local services are often insufficient to meet the needs of the existing local communities, let alone newcomers".The End of Parallel Lives?1218Lord Waddington
: My Lords, we have had a most interesting debate. I am grateful to all noble Lords and noble Baronesses who took part and to the noble Lord, Lord Rooker, for his robust and spirited reply.Lord Waddington
1215: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for his kind reference to my advancing years, which I hope will not prevent me continuing to ask Questions on energy policy.1215Lord Ezra
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Ezra
1310"to be due to greenhouse gas concentrations"."In the light of new evidence and taking into account remaining uncertainties, most of the observed warming over the last 50 years is likely"—"Studies … suggest that anthropogenic greenhouse gases are a substantial contributor to the observed warming, especially over the last 30 years. However, the accuracy of these estimates continues to be limited by uncertainties in estimates of variability, natural and anthropogenic forcing, and the climate response to external forcing".1309: My Lords, I have no very clear view about climate change. Indeed, I am somewhat worried that many people seem to be so sure. The issue is one of great complexity. There are so many factors that interact and have to be judged over such a long timescale that it makes predictions hazardous. About 75 per cent of experts—most, although not all, as some claim—agree that man-made greenhouse gases are a significant factor in global warning and everyone agrees that global warming is taking place. I feel that I must accept that majority view about the contribution of man-made factors, but how much warming will there be, how soon will it happen, what effect will it have and what should we do about it?1310"to be due to greenhouse gas concentrations"."In the light of new evidence and taking into account remaining uncertainties, most of the observed warming over the last 50 years is likely"—"Studies … suggest that anthropogenic greenhouse gases are a substantial contributor to the observed warming, especially over the last 30 years. However, the accuracy of these estimates continues to be limited by uncertainties in estimates of variability, natural and anthropogenic forcing, and the climate response to external forcing".1309Lord Taverne
"there is a need for major improvements in indicators used to measure public service outputs"."a formal government response is expected but is unlikely to contain any promises. Our informal understanding is that the door remains open for discussion and that the relative simplicity and evolutionary nature of the proposals are strong selling points. Less helpfully the issue is seen by some as encouraging criticism of the government and of official statistics"."will require government departments and agencies to follow a new statutory code of practice enforced by a statutory commission. This will help ensure we have a statistical service in the United Kingdom which serves, and is seen to serve the public interest".Legislation to Build Trust in Statistics1284"an independent non-departmental public body to help ensure that official statistics are trustworthy and responsive to public needs"."be used by government, Parliament and the wider community and in decision-making and debate, and will offer a window on the work and performance of government itself"."regrettable that such a fundamental issue should be raised at such a late stage in the review".1283"It is perfectly reasonable for the ONS to look at this but part of the trouble is that it is not completely independent—it reports to the Treasury rather than to Parliament—so the risk is that people will assume that there has been political pressure. If we had statistical independence, that concern would be allayed"."influenced its decision to reclassify the statistics, but that its influence was not improper"."The timing issue looks potentially uncomfortable so we will be askng the ONS what triggered it and to clarify why it was wrong to classify some of this spending as current in the past. We reiterate the need for demonstrable independence in official statistics".Financial Times1282"supremely convenient to the Chancellor, who is expected to have to raise taxes after the election if he is to meet his golden rule".Financial Times,"Buried within yesterday's press release from the Office of National Statistics was a potential bombshell, which could save Gordon Brown from embarassment over the public finances but risk damaging the national statistician's reputation for independence"."The national statisitician's reputation for independence is at issue in a balance sheet switch".Financial Times,"The Treasury was embroiled in a row over 'fiddled figures' last night, after government statisticians said they would reclassify public sector accounts before the budget in a way that could save the Chancellor from breaking his self-imposed rules on borrowing".Financial Times: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Marlesford, for initiating this important debate on the adequacy of official statistics for determining policy. I particularly enjoyed the contribution of the noble Lord, Lord Moser, having been at the coal face."there is a need for major improvements in indicators used to measure public service outputs"."a formal government response is expected but is unlikely to contain any promises. Our informal understanding is that the door remains open for discussion and that the relative simplicity and evolutionary nature of the proposals are strong selling points. Less helpfully the issue is seen by some as encouraging criticism of the government and of official statistics"."will require government departments and agencies to follow a new statutory code of practice enforced by a statutory commission. This will help ensure we have a statistical service in the United Kingdom which serves, and is seen to serve the public interest".Legislation to Build Trust in Statistics1284"an independent non-departmental public body to help ensure that official statistics are trustworthy and responsive to public needs"."be used by government, Parliament and the wider community and in decision-making and debate, and will offer a window on the work and performance of government itself"."regrettable that such a fundamental issue should be raised at such a late stage in the review".1283"It is perfectly reasonable for the ONS to look at this but part of the trouble is that it is not completely independent—it reports to the Treasury rather than to Parliament—so the risk is that people will assume that there has been political pressure. If we had statistical independence, that concern would be allayed"."influenced its decision to reclassify the statistics, but that its influence was not improper"."The timing issue looks potentially uncomfortable so we will be askng the ONS what triggered it and to clarify why it was wrong to classify some of this spending as current in the past. We reiterate the need for demonstrable independence in official statistics".Financial Times1282"supremely convenient to the Chancellor, who is expected to have to raise taxes after the election if he is to meet his golden rule".Financial Times,"Buried within yesterday's press release from the Office of National Statistics was a potential bombshell, which could save Gordon Brown from embarassment over the public finances but risk damaging the national statistician's reputation for independence"."The national statisitician's reputation for independence is at issue in a balance sheet switch".Financial Times,"The Treasury was embroiled in a row over 'fiddled figures' last night, after government statisticians said they would reclassify public sector accounts before the budget in a way that could save the Chancellor from breaking his self-imposed rules on borrowing".Financial TimesLord Northbrook
1244"The 1951 Convention is part of the legal and ethical framework that enshrines basic principles of human decency. We reject the idea of a fixed quota on refugee numbers or pulling out of the Convention as unworkable, unjust and counterproductive"."1 can assure you after having visited the entire city in which 2,000 people have been killed and an equal number wounded that the worst predictions of the coming aerial warfare have been converted here into the most abominable reality".I think it is only now, after all these years later, that I understand what a truly kind, wonderful and courageous woman Miss Harder was. She was my second mother for those few months. My sisters and I owe our lives to her, but we can never repay her for her kindness for having taken three unknown children into her home, given them love and understanding and her compassion".Those early weeks when we were miserable—we missed our mother and often cried—must have been very difficult for Miss Harder … Gradually we learnt English and got to know Miss Harder and after the first few months, we managed to adjust ourselves to our new surroundings and began to settle down. Then came a telegram from a friend of my mother's in Prague saying that mother had disappeared. After that another message said that she had been arrested and imprisoned as a hostage for my father. Our foster-mother tried everything to console us and take our minds off our sorrow. Somehow her efforts to comfort us brought us even closer together… but six months after our arrival in this country, Miss Harder died of consumption, and what she had tried to prevent, happened: my sisters and I were separated. They went to foster-parents and I got a job as a maid. Now, one of my sisters lives in San Francisco and the other one in New York, while I live in London. Our mother died in a concentration camp.1243"There were children's transports coming to England, and the Czech Trust Fund in England and the Committee in Prague were finding families who would take refugee children like us. It was my mother's wish that we three children should not be separated, but the Committee could not find anybody willing to take all three of us into their homes. But, at last one day we heard that we were finally leaving for England, and that a lady called Miss Harder would have all three of us — She was a spinster, in her early fifties, who owned a small confectionery and tobacco shop just by the Archway Underground Station in Highgate. The Committee, although it had been touched by her desire to help, had never found a child who would have been suitable for her to take in. Probably they thought she was too poor. When, just by chance, someone mentioned the three of us and the fact that our mother did not wish us to be parted, Miss Harder offered to take us all, to
1243I Came Alone—The Stories of the Kindertransports"The 1951 Convention regime has stood the test of time. There is no viable alternative to it as the principal international instrument of protection for those at risk of persecution".Handling EU asylum claims: new approaches examined1242: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for allowing us the opportunity for this important and timely debate, and I thank him for referring to me in his opening speech. I
1244"The 1951 Convention is part of the legal and ethical framework that enshrines basic principles of human decency. We reject the idea of a fixed quota on refugee numbers or pulling out of the Convention as unworkable, unjust and counterproductive"."1 can assure you after having visited the entire city in which 2,000 people have been killed and an equal number wounded that the worst predictions of the coming aerial warfare have been converted here into the most abominable reality".I think it is only now, after all these years later, that I understand what a truly kind, wonderful and courageous woman Miss Harder was. She was my second mother for those few months. My sisters and I owe our lives to her, but we can never repay her for her kindness for having taken three unknown children into her home, given them love and understanding and her compassion".Those early weeks when we were miserable—we missed our mother and often cried—must have been very difficult for Miss Harder … Gradually we learnt English and got to know Miss Harder and after the first few months, we managed to adjust ourselves to our new surroundings and began to settle down. Then came a telegram from a friend of my mother's in Prague saying that mother had disappeared. After that another message said that she had been arrested and imprisoned as a hostage for my father. Our foster-mother tried everything to console us and take our minds off our sorrow. Somehow her efforts to comfort us brought us even closer together… but six months after our arrival in this country, Miss Harder died of consumption, and what she had tried to prevent, happened: my sisters and I were separated. They went to foster-parents and I got a job as a maid. Now, one of my sisters lives in San Francisco and the other one in New York, while I live in London. Our mother died in a concentration camp.1243"There were children's transports coming to England, and the Czech Trust Fund in England and the Committee in Prague were finding families who would take refugee children like us. It was my mother's wish that we three children should not be separated, but the Committee could not find anybody willing to take all three of us into their homes. But, at last one day we heard that we were finally leaving for England, and that a lady called Miss Harder would have all three of us — She was a spinster, in her early fifties, who owned a small confectionery and tobacco shop just by the Archway Underground Station in Highgate. The Committee, although it had been touched by her desire to help, had never found a child who would have been suitable for her to take in. Probably they thought she was too poor. When, just by chance, someone mentioned the three of us and the fact that our mother did not wish us to be parted, Miss Harder offered to take us all, to
1243I Came Alone—The Stories of the Kindertransports"The 1951 Convention regime has stood the test of time. There is no viable alternative to it as the principal international instrument of protection for those at risk of persecution".Handling EU asylum claims: new approaches examined1242The Earl of Listowel
13001299: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Renton of Mount Harry, for his excellent and very effective chairmanship of Sub-Committee D. It was a pleasure to be a member of such a committee and I agree that the report, which was primarily due to his efforts, has turned out to be very successful.13001299Lord Lewis of Newnham
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, do the Government have a view on what the timescale for these carbon emission permits will be?The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, I mean national allocations.The Duke of Montrose
Times last week,13032.Hansard1302: My Lords, it is a great pleasure to rise to congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Haworth, of Fisherfield, on his maiden speech in your Lordships' House, especially because, as a Lancastrian, he has had the breadth of mind to claim a connection with Scotland in his title, which is situated in Ross and Cromarty.Times last week,13032.Hansard1302The Duke of Montrose
12701269: My Lords, I shall give a response because the point has been raised previously. The noble Viscount referred to the orders that I took through the House last summer with the House's support. If I can get to that matter, I shall certainly do so. If not, I shall write to everyone who has participated in the debate.12701269Lord Rooker
1268Official Report,"The answer is no. We have no plans to withdraw from or renegotiate the 1951 refugee convention. It is part of the legal and ethical framework that enshrines basic principles of human decency through which all countries meet their obligations. A better and more realistic way of addressing today's protection issues is to adopt effective domestic asylum procedures and to work with other governments and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees".-—[Official Report,"Whether they intend to renegotiate or opt out of the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees".126712661265: My Lords, with 19 speakers and 20 minutes allocated, I cannot begin to respond. A minute for each speaker would be an insult. I have been asked many specific questions. Although I shall make some general remarks to start with as quickly as I can to put some issues on record and cover some points, I will ensure—I normally try not to do this, but in this case, as with the prisons debate, I must—that we give specific replies to the specific questions, because they are important. As I say, I shall try to deal with as many as possible.1268Official Report,"The answer is no. We have no plans to withdraw from or renegotiate the 1951 refugee convention. It is part of the legal and ethical framework that enshrines basic principles of human decency through which all countries meet their obligations. A better and more realistic way of addressing today's protection issues is to adopt effective domestic asylum procedures and to work with other governments and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees".-—[Official Report,"Whether they intend to renegotiate or opt out of the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees".126712661265Lord Rooker
: My Lords, anyone would think that central government had not assisted local government every year. That is quite normal and one year does not differ from another. It is true that there are fluctuations, and there have been big fluctuations in recent years. We are seeking to assist local government. On the other hand, the proportion is very small because the total amount of government grant and business rates in the year 2005–06 will be £60 billion. That is £3.5 billion, or 6.2 per cent, more than in the year 2004–05, and I do not apologise for that.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I imagine that all the points raised by my noble friend—he is still my noble friend—would naturally be covered by the independent review, to which people will probably submit evidence to that effect. I am not pronouncing on that, but the review goes much wider than simply considering council tax bands. It is much more open than that. Sir Michael Lyons can come forward with any and every suggestion that is practical, and he will do that because of his experience. Nothing is ruled out in that sense.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I am an unfashionable Minister.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I gave the reason in my original Answer—that is, the Government have set up an independent inquiry chaired by Sir Michael Lyons, who has impeccable credentials on this issue. He is due to report by the end of 2005, following which, if action needs to be taken, there will need to be a full public consultation and parliamentary debate. That will inform decisions taken by the Government. We are not going to make decisions on the hoof as we go along. That is why we have set up an independent inquiry.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the Local Government Act 2003 provides for the revaluation of all English domestic property on 1 April 2007 using the 1 April 2005 property values. The independent inquiry into local government funding headed by Sir Michael Lyons, which is due to report by the end of this year, will inform decisions by Her Majesty's Government on council tax hands.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
: My Lords, I shall not go down the road of answering questions on issues that might he raised after the election—presumably questions asked of a Labour government, which is quite an admission. As I said, we have set up an independent inquiry, and local government has been flooded with money from central government. All local authorities have had inflation-led or higher than inflation-led grants for this year and, since 1997, local government has had a 33 per cent real terms increase in funding. So we do not expect any substantial or unreasonable council tax increases this year.Lord Rooker
1213: My Lords, these are the very issues that we expect Sir Michael Lyons to inquire into. He is not limited to looking at the present mechanism of council tax. We all understand the reason for the council tax: it was a substitute for the poll tax. Nothing in the legislation of the early 1990s required a revaluation of the council tax figures. It is true that the business rates are revalued, but not domestic property.
1213Lord Rooker
1214: My Lords, I repeat that the review is open, but I reject what the noble Lord implies in his question. When new burdens are placed on local authorities by central government, central government departments are required to fund those new burdens. That has not always been the case but it is what happens at present. When ideas float around Whitehall, I always
1214Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I declare an interest as a former vice-chairman of the BBC who had some responsibility for appointing the noble Lord, Lord Birt, as director-general.Lord Barnett
: My Lords, may I ask my noble friend to suggest to the noble Lord that it might be in his own best interests and the national interest if his reports were published? If they are not, we get only the media version, and the media do not seem to like him.Lord Barnett
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that it would be quite wrong to increase pensioners' council tax by more than the rate of inflation after the election?Earl Attlee
: My Lords, I rather suspect that we ought to approach that last observation with some delicacy. We should not always seek to follow the media's agenda. As to the noble Lord's point about published reports, the noble Lord, Lord Birt, obviously provides blue-sky thinking, advice and support to the Prime Minister and a number of other Ministers, and works very closely with the Strategy Unit in No. 10. The majority of its reports are published documents and in the public domain; they make a valuable contribution to policy thinking and public debate.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, the noble Lord. Lord Birt, has worked on a number of Strategy Unit projects. His advice has been reflected in a number of Strategy Unit reports.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I am not sure that there was a question among the noble Lord's observations—and observations they were. They were observations based in the main, I can only comment, on idle press speculation. I am not prepared to respond to that.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, the noble Lord will be reassured if I say that I am sure that the Prime Minister takes very careful account of what he says.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I do not agree with the noble Lord's second observation. Far from it being the case, I am sure that the Prime Minister has great confidence in the team that he has assembled around him. It does a very good job. I am sure that the noble Lord, Lord Birt, provides very valuable information to the Prime Minister and other Ministers, and that his role in that regard is no different from that of other specialist and unpaid advisers appointed by previous governments.Lord Bassam of Brighton
Times1258en masse.ObserverObserverVolksdeutsche1257: My Lords, I also thank the noble Lord. Lord Waddington, for giving us the chance to debate this important subject, which is of concern to so many people. The Motion rightly differentiates between immigration, in the sense of economic immigration, and asylum, even though the demarcation line between the two is inevitably sometimes blurred.Times1258en masse.ObserverObserverVolksdeutsche1257Lord Monson
12481247: My Lords, as we have heard, asylum seekers are again becoming the cannon fodder of an election campaign. In some ways, Labour and Tory thinking in another place has converged into a more aggressive stance which can only damage the chances of future applicants. The Government's new strategy has been greeted with dismay by those who work with asylum seekers. Its robust language—of crackdowns and rooting out abuse—amounts to an obvious manifesto. Its five-year approach is bound to alarm legitimate asylum seekers still further.12481247The Earl of Sandwich
: My Lords, I do not think that I could have expected a better answer from the noble Lord. However, is he aware that the invitations occasioned more than a whiff of surprise for two reasons? The first is that it was not generally known that the noble Lord, Lord Birt, possessed any particular knowledge of either crime or transport. The second is that the Prime Minister's invitation surely indicated a really serious lack of confidence in his colleagues and their Civil Service advisers.Lord Peyton of Yeovil
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Peyton of Yeovil
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that as such important bodies as the Trades Union Congress are apparently misunderstanding the sensible provisions that are made in the constitution, the time has now been reached when the Government, who have to win a referendum on this matter, need to get a much greater explanation of their point of view through to public opinion? The time for that publicity campaign, if it was not last week, is certainly now.Lord Tomlinson
Guardian,: My Lords, before I reply, according to the Guardian,The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, the noble Lord is right to suggest that under-ocean storage is in general illegal in most cases under the Ospar Convention. However, in relation to the enhanced oil recovery aspects—in other words, if it is part of the management of an oil or gas field—it is not illegal. The Ospar Convention is referred to in order to establish whether it could be extended to other potential sites.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I am aware of those examples, which prove the point that carbon capture and storage can be combined with production facilities and reduce carbon emissions very substantially. We wish to give such technologies a very substantial boost. There are some unanswered questions in relation to them. We are supporting the R&D and we are looking at including these technologies within the emissions trading scheme. They are a major part of the portfolio of measures needed to tackle the problem of climate change, which, in the light of recent information, looks as if it may be proceeding faster than previously thought.Lord Whitty
1216: My Lords, we are well aware of the role that forestry can play in carbon capture and in restricting carbon use and carbon emissions in buildings and elsewhere. Indeed, the sustainable building process, in which we are engaged in England, is looking at, among
1216Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I agree with that. While there is faith in technology—and many technologies are now coming forward, including some dealing with carbon sequestration—blind faith that technology will always provide is wrong and misguided unless the framework and support system for the development of that technology are created. In so far as it represents the view of influential people, not excluding some in Washington, it seems to be a dangerous, complacent and irresponsible policy. We need to create the framework in which technologies can help to deal with the huge problem that is facing the globe.Lord Whitty
1217: My Lords, I think that they are exactly as described: they are relatively small nuclear reactors. I do not necessarily view them as a major contribution to the UK's energy problem, but with the boom in the Chinese economy and its consumption of fossil fuels at the moment, it is wise for the Chinese to look to all measures of saving carbon, including that which the
1217Lord Whitty
: My Lords, it stops the emissions of that carbon to a large extent and therefore makes a contribution to the effect that carbon has on the atmosphere and on the globe in general, so I would not be quite as dismissive as the noble Lord implied in his final remarks. It is a carbon-saving technology, but a whole range of issues, involving energy efficiency, the use of carbon fuels and the replacement of carbon fuels by other sources of energy, are equally important.Lord Whitty
: Yes, my Lords. We were aiming that that would take place this year, but of course the discussion about the allocation ceiling—for us arid for certain other member states—puts that back a bit. It would probably be sensible if I set out the totality of the immediate position on that, including what I have said about the cap itself, and write to the noble Duke and, indeed, other noble Lords.Lord Whitty
13281327132613251324: My Lords, my thanks to everyone who has taken part in this debate, and especially to the noble Lord, Lord Renton, and his committee, for producing such an effective report on which everyone has positively commented, and added to. It is a good example of how effectively our sub-committees can address important problems and engage a wide range of people in the process.13281327132613251324Lord Whitty
: My Lords, that is a complicated question. Do you mean under the European Emissions Trading Scheme?Lord Whitty
1317Wall Street JournalPace1316: My Lords, I add my congratulations to those of other noble Lords to the noble Lord, Lord Haworth, on his geophysical maiden speech; they seem to come about every five years in this House.1317Wall Street JournalPace1316Lord Hunt of Chesterton
"We are not going to change Thatcher's laws and we're not going to let Europe change them."1208"protecting UK labour laws … from the impact of the fundamental trade union rights guaranteed by the EU Charter".: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that very clear Answer. In the light of it, will he advise the Trades Union Congress to look carefully at a report given to it last year? It concluded that there is no way of,
"We are not going to change Thatcher's laws and we're not going to let Europe change them."1208"protecting UK labour laws … from the impact of the fundamental trade union rights guaranteed by the EU Charter".Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
1256Gesundheitserlaubnis,Arbeitserlaubnis,Aufenthaltserlaubnis1255[0fficial Report,"I think that that is a preposterous suggestion because the photo-identity pass does not identify the person concerned. It might state that it is an official document, and the notice to turn it in to a police station if lost is helpful, but what on earth does that really tell anyone? I therefore [cannot] take the suggestion seriously".—[0fficial Report,"What documentation is acceptable as proof of identity to permit British subjects to travel without let or hindrance within the European Union".1254: My Lords, I admit that I have a great interest in migration but not very much interest in immigration. I suppose that I have been a migrant all my life. At the start of the war I was migrated—it was not a positive decision of my own—to the United States. Then I migrated to Canada, then back to London and then to some sort of institution called a prep school. I should declare an interest in that I am a director of one of the construction companies that built the immigration centre at Gatwick—not that there is any relation between the two institutions. I then migrated to another place and then to the Mediterranean as a member of the Navy. Then I migrated back to work in the north-east of England. I suddenly realised that I had never been in one place for more than two years at a time.1256Gesundheitserlaubnis,Arbeitserlaubnis,Aufenthaltserlaubnis1255[0fficial Report,"I think that that is a preposterous suggestion because the photo-identity pass does not identify the person concerned. It might state that it is an official document, and the notice to turn it in to a police station if lost is helpful, but what on earth does that really tell anyone? I therefore [cannot] take the suggestion seriously".—[0fficial Report,"What documentation is acceptable as proof of identity to permit British subjects to travel without let or hindrance within the European Union".1254Lord Selsdon
1274Prisongate;1273Financial TimesThe Edge of Now.1272Economist, rose to call attention to the adequacy of official statistics for the determination of policy; and to move for Papers.1274Prisongate;1273Financial TimesThe Edge of Now.1272Economist,Lord Marlesford
: My Lords, I am sorry that the noble Lord, Lord McIntosh, is disappointed with the debate. I am not entirely surprised because, after all, we tend to look to the reality of the world and try to form policies that fit it. Of course, as the noble Lord said several times, with his interest in surveys he represents a party which tries to do everything through focus groups. We are going rather wider. I hope that tonight we have had the opportunity to put the Government on notice that we are fairly dissatisfied with their making of statistics and we shall draw attention both to that and to other relevant factors in the poor governance which results from time to time. Meanwhile, I thank all noble Lords who have taken part in the debate and I beg leave to withdraw the Motion for Papers.Lord Marlesford
Legislation to Build Trust in Statistics"commitment and the explicit recognition of the importance of an independent statistical service"."some important parallels with the Commission's recommendations—notably a statutory body reporting to Parliament and a binding code of practice that all government departments and agencies would be obliged to respect".1286"after a joint enquiry with Treasury statisticians"."trust in statistics is essential for effective administration and delivery of public services. Unless decision-makers trust the statistical evidence they will ignore it with a potential high economic cost. Unless the public trust the figures, they won't trust the decision-makers—they won't believe Ministers, for example, on the National Health Service".cliché du jour1285: My Lords, I have only one claim to fame in the world of statistics. I imagine that it is unique in this Chamber. I was put in charge of a country's cost of living statistics at the age of 21—those of Kenya in 1968, eight weeks after my final exam in PPE in Oxford, luckily with a special paper in statistics. Among other things, I ran their motor vehicle statistics, and gratefully received from the Nairobi BMW distributor the only little bribe that I had in my two years in Kenya; what a sad contrast to the corruption there today. That bribe was a pair of scissors for my desk, which work as well today as they did 36 years ago. Thank goodness for that, I think, when my heart sinks at the daily pile of post that we have to open in this place. It is another triumph of German engineering reliability: they manufacture too well for their own good. Another reason for caution in interpreting statistics, however, is that those scissors will have featured only once in national accounts, while I have enjoyed their services for 36 years.Legislation to Build Trust in Statistics"commitment and the explicit recognition of the importance of an independent statistical service"."some important parallels with the Commission's recommendations—notably a statutory body reporting to Parliament and a binding code of practice that all government departments and agencies would be obliged to respect".1286"after a joint enquiry with Treasury statisticians"."trust in statistics is essential for effective administration and delivery of public services. Unless decision-makers trust the statistical evidence they will ignore it with a potential high economic cost. Unless the public trust the figures, they won't trust the decision-makers—they won't believe Ministers, for example, on the National Health Service".cliché du jour1285Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
12231222: My Lords, we are all very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for introducing this subject. He was Leader of the House when I entered it, and so I should first of all declare my various interests.12231222Lord Desai
12611260"any solution depending on an apparent or concealed colour test would be so invidious as to be impossible of adoption. Nevertheless it has to be recognised that the use of any powers taken to restrict the free entry of British subjects to this country would, as a general rule. be more or less confined to coloured persons".1259: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Waddington. for giving us this opportunity for the debate, which has aroused recent widespread publicity. The noble Lord was once the Home Secretary. In those days I did not agree with many of the things he said; today I stand in the same position.
12611260"any solution depending on an apparent or concealed colour test would be so invidious as to be impossible of adoption. Nevertheless it has to be recognised that the use of any powers taken to restrict the free entry of British subjects to this country would, as a general rule. be more or less confined to coloured persons".1259Lord Dholakia
"If the response to shortages is to import labour, additional demand for goods and services, then further shortages of labour will emerge. The argument from shortages creates an open-ended demand for more immigration. If the UK had a population of 120 million it would still have labour shortages and so a demand for yet more immigration. The demand could never be justified".Financial Times12331232Prospect: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Waddington has drawn attention to the sharp increase in immigration in recent years. Net cumulative immigration has amounted to almost 750,000 between 1999 and 2003. If net immigration were to continue at the present level of 150,000 a year the UK's population would rise to 69 million by the middle of this century, which is roughly 12 million greater than it would be without immigration. It follows that during that time the composition of the population would alter considerably."If the response to shortages is to import labour, additional demand for goods and services, then further shortages of labour will emerge. The argument from shortages creates an open-ended demand for more immigration. If the UK had a population of 120 million it would still have labour shortages and so a demand for yet more immigration. The demand could never be justified".Financial Times12331232ProspectLord Lamont of Lerwick
: My Lords, the Minister suggested that this matter would require a long period of discussion, a long period of consultation and then proper extended parliamentary consideration. In view of events in the other place today, is that not a rather unfashionable view for a Minister in this Government?Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, in his Answer, the Minister referred to the Ospar Convention, which was negotiated and signed when I was Secretary of State for the Environment. Is it the case that it is illegal under that convention to pump sequestered carbon dioxide hack into sources under the sea? Presumably, that is why the Minister said that the convention would have to be renegotiated. Why have the Norwegians therefore been allowed to do that without any renegotiation of the Ospar Convention? Why does it loom so large in the eyes of present Ministers when other countries do not seem to face the same difficulty?Lord Jenkin of Roding
12501249Times: My Lords, as ever it is a privilege to follow the noble Earl, Lord Sandwich, and his delicate dissection of a highly-focused element of today's landscape. Your Lordships' House owes a considerable debt to my noble friend Lord Waddington, not only for securing this debate, but for his masterly exposition of the subject and the scene. He has placed some of us in his particular debt by obviating the need to essay a comprehensive survey of the data ourselves. My observations will be subjective, but will seek to illumine some incidental corners of the scene.12501249TimesLord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
1278Guardian1277: My Lords, it is a daunting prospect to follow the noble Lord, Lord Moser, for reasons of my own very slight personal experience in this area, but it is nevertheless a great privilege.1278Guardian1277Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
2131122"It is clear that a great deal more action needs to be taken urgently to limit the effects of aviation on climate change".: My Lords, I am delighted to join all other speakers in congratulating the noble Lord, Lord Renton of Mount Harry, on the way he introduced the debate. I would like to add my own congratulations to the committee on producing such an excellent report. It contains a clear and positive analysis and endorsement of the climate change control policies that are being developed and adopted by the 25 EU member states. It is a wholly welcome contribution to the debate.2131122"It is clear that a great deal more action needs to be taken urgently to limit the effects of aviation on climate change".Lord Faulkner of Worcester
130522"Our response to the threat of global warming will affect our personal wellbeing and the evolution of man, society and all life on our planet".1304"the biggest issue for us to face this century".: My Lords, I add my congratulations to the noble Lord, Lord Haworth, on his maiden speech. As a Welshman I admire anybody who climbs a mountain and glories in it. I found his speech focused and much to the point. I should also like to thank the noble Lord, Lord Renton of Mount Harry, for his chairmanship of Sub-Committee D of which I am a member and for the drive and focus he gave it to ensure that we got through on time having covered almost every aspect connected with climate change under consideration.130522"Our response to the threat of global warming will affect our personal wellbeing and the evolution of man, society and all life on our planet".1304"the biggest issue for us to face this century".Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that a dangerous and serious situation surrounds this issue? I live in a village where a high proportion of the houses are former farm workers' cottages. They are selling at £350,000 plus and they have been handed down through the families. The people who live there could not afford to sell their houses because, first, they would have to find somewhere else to live and they would not find anywhere else cheaper and, secondly, they could not afford to pay the tax and the agents' fees. We have the absurd situation whereby people are assessed for tax on an asset which they cannot get rid of.Lord Marsh
: My Lords, does the Minister agree with the proposition that, while a multifaceted approach is essential—as he said—and carbon sequestration may well play a proper part in that, the basic problem that has to be tackled is to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions in themselves in quantum? It is perfectly true that sequestration does that in a sense, but the total volume has to be reduced anyway. Sequestration does not reduce the total volume; it merely puts some of it away in a cupboard.Lord Dixon-Smith
132313221321: My Lords, like every speaker, I join in thanking my noble friend Lord Renton of Mount Harry for presenting this report. More particularly, I join in thanking the members of the committee for the immense hard work and study which must have gone into taking the evidence, trying to summarise it and putting it all into a presentable form.132313221321Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, I welcome the Minister's implicit recognition that there is no single solution to the problem of climate change but that we need many parallel actions, including some—of which carbon sequestration is an important part—that reduce the input of greenhouse gases, and others that seek to adapt to the consequences. Does he agree that it is a pernicious delusion to imagine that we can avoid hard choices—or at least delay them, as some would urge—by the promise of as yet unproven technological fixes?Lord May of Oxford
1264"Over the last three years. 50 per cent of appeals by applicants intending to visit family members in the United Kingdom have led to the initial decision being overturned. The provision of additional evidence which was not available to the entry clearance officer and the support of the sponsor were often influential in the decision being overturned. But. in some cases, adjudicators raised concerns over the robustness of the original decision. The refusal decision is reviewed again by an entry clearance manager when the appeal is received, and both the initial and adjudicator's decision are based on the balance of probabilities. However, a more rigorous quality review and enhanced staff training would help to prevent borderline cases reaching appeal".Visa Entry to the UK,0fficial Report,""We will abolish the right of appeal against refusal of leave to enter the UK for work or study".—[0fficial Report,"Overseas students make a major contribution. economic and intellectual, to our education institutions and many as a result develop lifelong ties with this country".12631262: My Lords, it is always a privilege to follow the noble Lord, Lord Dholakia, with his great experience of this subject and his deep commitment to it.1264"Over the last three years. 50 per cent of appeals by applicants intending to visit family members in the United Kingdom have led to the initial decision being overturned. The provision of additional evidence which was not available to the entry clearance officer and the support of the sponsor were often influential in the decision being overturned. But. in some cases, adjudicators raised concerns over the robustness of the original decision. The refusal decision is reviewed again by an entry clearance manager when the appeal is received, and both the initial and adjudicator's decision are based on the balance of probabilities. However, a more rigorous quality review and enhanced staff training would help to prevent borderline cases reaching appeal".Visa Entry to the UK,0fficial Report,""We will abolish the right of appeal against refusal of leave to enter the UK for work or study".—[0fficial Report,"Overseas students make a major contribution. economic and intellectual, to our education institutions and many as a result develop lifelong ties with this country".12631262Viscount Bridgeman
: My Lords, the substantive Question was about the constitution, and the Minister's substantive Answer was about the charter, which he emphasised in his further replies was part of the constitution. Can he explain the relationship between the constitution as a whole and the charter, and assure the House that nothing in other parts of the constitution is of higher authority than the charter? In other words, which comes first?Lord Elton
1306: My Lords, the issue is large and difficult, and the basic details of the proposed scheme to reduce carbon dioxide emissions is carefully analysed in the committee's report. We are grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Renton of Mount Harry, and his colleagues for producing such a clear and comprehensive document.1306Lord Bridges
: My Lords. is it not a fact that many of us, from all parts of the Chamber, give advice to the Prime Minister? The question is whether the Prime Minister takes note. I am constantly giving him advice, but he does not take any notice of it.Lord Taylor of Blackburn
: Is that not the true position?Lord Taylor of Blackburn
(Lord Renton of Mount Harry.): Noah! My Lords, I am sorry: Noah managed to do that. What was his secret? Goodness, we need it now. This is the big unresolved question. How do we—politicians, scientists, editors and the media—put over to the public the potential dangers ahead and advise them about what they can do to minimise the damage and to use human inventiveness, the inventiveness of mankind, to overcome it? That is the unanswered question that lies ahead of us.(Lord Renton of Mount Harry.)Lord Renton of Mount Harry
"The dove found no rest for the sole of her foot"—221296221295222"The debate is not have we got a clear global warming signal—the debate is what are we going to do about it".Houston Chronicle1294rose to move, That this House takes note of the report of the European Union Committee on The EU and Climate Change (30th Report, Session 2003–04, HL Paper 179)."The dove found no rest for the sole of her foot"—221296221295222"The debate is not have we got a clear global warming signal—the debate is what are we going to do about it".Houston Chronicle1294Lord Renton of Mount Harry
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for giving way. On the point raised by myself, the noble Earl, Lord Listowel, and my noble friend Lord Bridgeman, there is great concern about the suggestion in the five-year strategy that no appeals will be allowed for students coming here to attend college or university. There is a genuine belief that that will turn off a lot of overseas students from trying to come here at just the time the universities need them. Will the Minister please ensure that this point is taken up with the Home Secretary?Lord Renton of Mount Harry
"No man is an island, entire of itself: every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main".1241The Times"is unable or … unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country"."owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted … is outside the country of his nationality and"—1240: My Lords, I listened to what the noble Lord, Lord Clinton-Davis, said with great interest. 1 remember him well as a friend and companion on the opposite Benches in the other place. I agree with him very much that immigration and asylum are sensitive issues and must be dealt with sensitively. I think he is perhaps a little optimistic in thinking what help we might get in that respect from the media, but there is never any harm in trying. I fully agree with him when he thanked my noble friend Lord Waddington for introducing the debate and for making us think about this difficult subject at election time."No man is an island, entire of itself: every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main".1241The Times"is unable or … unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country"."owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted … is outside the country of his nationality and"—1240Lord Renton of Mount Harry
13301329: My Lords, obviously the Minister's reply has opened many interesting doors, all of which we might wish to walk through at some time, but it is not going to be tonight. I thank all those who have taken part in this debate, on all sides of the House and on all the Front Benches, for their extremely interesting and wide-ranging contributions.13301329Lord Renton of Mount Harry
"The more freely capital and goods move around the rich world, the harder it becomes to inhibit the movement of people, with the hostility of … voters to foreign influx growing in proportion as the ability to restrict it dwindles. The power of government to reverse this process is no greater than it was in the past, but its capacity to signal an intention and project that signal is far stronger".The Uninvited,1228controlling our borders,"firm immigration controls arc essential for good community relations".1227Leicester Mercury: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for bringing these matters to our attention. It was just over 30 years ago that the "The more freely capital and goods move around the rich world, the harder it becomes to inhibit the movement of people, with the hostility of … voters to foreign influx growing in proportion as the ability to restrict it dwindles. The power of government to reverse this process is no greater than it was in the past, but its capacity to signal an intention and project that signal is far stronger".The Uninvited,1228controlling our borders,"firm immigration controls arc essential for good community relations".1227Leicester MercuryThe Lord Bishop of Leicester
1211: My Lords, all parts of the House would consider missing advice from the noble Lord, Lord Taylor, as an opportunity missed. However, is there not a more serious matter here? The noble Lord, Lord Birt, was supposedly going to give "blue-sky thinking" advice to the Prime Minister. There is now very clear evidence that he is interfering directly in matters before Cabinet and Parliament; I refer to the charter of the BBC. What guarantee do we have that the new BBC charter will not be drawn up on that famous Downing
1211Lord McNally
: My Lords, will the review cover the increasing imposition laid on local government by central government, which is really the root cause of its need for extra money and why taxation has to rise?Lord Roberts of Conwy
1308"that climate change is the biggest issue facing us this century",1307: My Lords, thanks are indeed due to the noble Lord, Lord Renton of Mount Harry. for the good-natured way in which he guided a very lively committee through this report: the end product bears his stamp and authority. Perhaps I may also welcome the excellent contribution from my noble friend Lord Haworth. His is indeed a powerful voice that I hope we will hear on many occasions.1308"that climate change is the biggest issue facing us this century",1307Baroness Billingham
1253Official Report,"Overseas students make a major contribution, economic and intellectual, to our education institutions, and many as a result develop lifelong ties with this country. The positive effect of migrants is true throughout the United Kingdom".—[Official Report,1252"Effective controls at the EU's external border protect all the Member States, including the United Kingdom and Ireland despite their non-participation in Schengen".Proposals for a European Border Guard:"of the 91,000 Eastern Europeans who arrived in Britain to work during the first five months following EU enlargement last May, fewer than 15 have claimed benefits. They are coming to work: on our building sites, in our hospitals, in our restaurants. Without this external supply of labour, wage inflation would have soared and interest rates would be markedly higher than they are. Not only that; it would be all but impossible to find a cleaner or a tradesman in London".Spectator"A refugee is a person who is recognised as having a well-founded fear of persecution under the terms of the 1951 United Nations Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. An asylum seeker is someone who is applying for refugee status but whose application has not yet been determined. If the application is successful (whether it leads to recognition as a refugee or the grant of 'exceptional leave to remain', a subsidiary status) the person concerned will not be an illegal immigrant. But if the application is refused outright, the presumption will he that he or she is an illegal immigrant, and must leave the country unless there is a successful appeal".A Common Policy on Illegal Immigration,1251: My Lords, I too thank the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for initiating the debate—if only it helps to lay to rest the myths and more extreme ideas that have been brought forward. In declaring my interest, I must advise your Lordships that for four happy years I chaired the European Union Committee's Sub-Committee F, which dealt of
1253Official Report,"Overseas students make a major contribution, economic and intellectual, to our education institutions, and many as a result develop lifelong ties with this country. The positive effect of migrants is true throughout the United Kingdom".—[Official Report,1252"Effective controls at the EU's external border protect all the Member States, including the United Kingdom and Ireland despite their non-participation in Schengen".Proposals for a European Border Guard:"of the 91,000 Eastern Europeans who arrived in Britain to work during the first five months following EU enlargement last May, fewer than 15 have claimed benefits. They are coming to work: on our building sites, in our hospitals, in our restaurants. Without this external supply of labour, wage inflation would have soared and interest rates would be markedly higher than they are. Not only that; it would be all but impossible to find a cleaner or a tradesman in London".Spectator"A refugee is a person who is recognised as having a well-founded fear of persecution under the terms of the 1951 United Nations Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. An asylum seeker is someone who is applying for refugee status but whose application has not yet been determined. If the application is successful (whether it leads to recognition as a refugee or the grant of 'exceptional leave to remain', a subsidiary status) the person concerned will not be an illegal immigrant. But if the application is refused outright, the presumption will he that he or she is an illegal immigrant, and must leave the country unless there is a successful appeal".A Common Policy on Illegal Immigration,1251Baroness Harris of Richmond
213151314: My Lords, I am pleased to be able to be here to talk about this welcome, solid and practical report from the committee. I commend the noble Lord. Lord Renton of Mount Harry, and his committee members on producing it.213151314Baroness Young of Old Scone
12981297: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Renton of Mount Harry, and his colleagues on the committee for their report and for giving us the opportunity to discuss it this evening. I look forward to the maiden speech of my noble friend Lord Haworth. I am also delighted to see in her place my noble friend Lady Young of Old Scone,
12981297Baroness Dean of Thornton-Ie-Fylde
1246"expected these people to leave voluntarily, but if not they would consider it entirely proper to enforce their removal as they would nationals of any other country".1245"temporary suspension of enforced return of failed Zimbabwean asylum seekers"."You must now leave this country"."that means it would be safe for that particular individual to return to their country of origin"?: My Lords, I went to a London school and in 1937 my headmistress, together with the distinguished MP Eleanor Rathbone, went to Germany—and, in the following year, to Barcelona. On each occasion they brought back refugee children who they adopted. One of them became a doctor and another a magistrate: they became friends of mine. From early in my life I have therefore seen, met and known refugees.1246"expected these people to leave voluntarily, but if not they would consider it entirely proper to enforce their removal as they would nationals of any other country".1245"temporary suspension of enforced return of failed Zimbabwean asylum seekers"."You must now leave this country"."that means it would be safe for that particular individual to return to their country of origin"?Baroness Park of Monmouth
Le Monde: My Lords, does the Minister agree with the Foreign Minister, who wrote in Le MondeBaroness Miller of Hendon
12381237Controlling our borders: Making migration work fur Britain,: My Lords, this is a very timely debate and I thank the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for introducing it. I say timely because the Government have set out in the Home Office document, 12381237Controlling our borders: Making migration work fur Britain,Baroness D'Souza
"VAT is specifically a Treasury matter and was, therefore, not included in the consultation carried out by this Department regarding the proposals to extend horse-passport requirements to all horses. However, Customs and Excise are considering representations".1281"The information requested cannot be provided as it is not held centrally. The Department is in the process of compiling a central list for the future, but this will take some time to complete and will not be retrospective"."A partial regulatory impact assessment to assess the financial and other impacts of the … Directive … was completed in March 2002. A further assessment will be carried out once the Directive has been adopted. Any indirect costs which Local Authorities might face as a result of the UK's approach … would be an important factor in agreeing the best legislative framework".1280"complications with compiling historical information following the recent Machinery of Government changes, and the restructuring of DEFRA with its revised objectives that followed".WA 183.[Official Report,"this included issues of concern to rural areas, such as the treatment of sparsity. We will consult on options for reform over the summer and will consider the responses when we come to take decisions".—WA 183.[Official Report,"take of the extra cost of providing public services in rural areas in the local government grant distribution formula in or England".206.Official Report,"no overall assessment has been made of the different costs of providing public services in rural areas in England compared with urban areas"".—[206.Official Report,"made of the extra cost of providing public services in rural areas in England compared to urban areas".1279"To provide an accurate, up-to-date, comprehensive and meaningful picture of the economy and society, [and] to support the formulation and monitoring of economic and social policies by government at all levels".: My Lords, I feel great timidity in following such eloquent speeches from my noble friend Lord Brooke and the noble Lord, Lord Moser. However, I would like to begin by thanking my noble friend Lord Marlesford for introducing this debate tonight. When it came up, I thought that I would be totally inadequate and unqualified to speak in this debate so I wish to make my contribution in a slightly different way."VAT is specifically a Treasury matter and was, therefore, not included in the consultation carried out by this Department regarding the proposals to extend horse-passport requirements to all horses. However, Customs and Excise are considering representations".1281"The information requested cannot be provided as it is not held centrally. The Department is in the process of compiling a central list for the future, but this will take some time to complete and will not be retrospective"."A partial regulatory impact assessment to assess the financial and other impacts of the … Directive … was completed in March 2002. A further assessment will be carried out once the Directive has been adopted. Any indirect costs which Local Authorities might face as a result of the UK's approach … would be an important factor in agreeing the best legislative framework".1280"complications with compiling historical information following the recent Machinery of Government changes, and the restructuring of DEFRA with its revised objectives that followed".WA 183.[Official Report,"this included issues of concern to rural areas, such as the treatment of sparsity. We will consult on options for reform over the summer and will consider the responses when we come to take decisions".—WA 183.[Official Report,"take of the extra cost of providing public services in rural areas in the local government grant distribution formula in or England".206.Official Report,"no overall assessment has been made of the different costs of providing public services in rural areas in England compared with urban areas"".—[206.Official Report,"made of the extra cost of providing public services in rural areas in England compared to urban areas".1279"To provide an accurate, up-to-date, comprehensive and meaningful picture of the economy and society, [and] to support the formulation and monitoring of economic and social policies by government at all levels".Baroness Byford
"children's human rights are being sacrificed to adult opinion".1226"Happy birthday—we're throwing you",Independent,1225World-wide, the number of asylum applications has continued to fall and is at its lowest for 17 years. The UK is not the top receiving country. Pakistan is the most generous host—looking after over 1.1 million refugees—and has been for years. The UK ranks just 74th world-wide in terms of refugees per GDP per capita".'As well as talking about moral obligations and international co-operation, we need to talk reality too' … The public continues to be confused by the mixing of immigration and asylum and by the myths that have seeped into the public debate in the UK'."'The international partnership reflected in the 1951 Convention is absolutely essential to addressing today's asylum issues', said Anne Dawson-Shepherd, the UN Refugee Agency's Representative to the United Kingdom, 'An estimated 87 per cent of the people of concern to the UNHCR are looked after by some of the poorest countries in Africa and Asia'.1224Bloody Foreigners: My Lords, I rise to speak in this debate for two reasons. One is my alarm at the tone of public debate on these issues in this country and the other is my personal background. I am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, for introducing this debate. Of course, some of that tone is not new. Robert Winder's excellent book, "children's human rights are being sacrificed to adult opinion".1226"Happy birthday—we're throwing you",Independent,1225World-wide, the number of asylum applications has continued to fall and is at its lowest for 17 years. The UK is not the top receiving country. Pakistan is the most generous host—looking after over 1.1 million refugees—and has been for years. The UK ranks just 74th world-wide in terms of refugees per GDP per capita".'As well as talking about moral obligations and international co-operation, we need to talk reality too' … The public continues to be confused by the mixing of immigration and asylum and by the myths that have seeped into the public debate in the UK'."'The international partnership reflected in the 1951 Convention is absolutely essential to addressing today's asylum issues', said Anne Dawson-Shepherd, the UN Refugee Agency's Representative to the United Kingdom, 'An estimated 87 per cent of the people of concern to the UNHCR are looked after by some of the poorest countries in Africa and Asia'.1224Bloody ForeignersBaroness Neuberger
: My Lords, I remind my noble friend that in the EU unions are generally regarded as social partners. With that recognition goes an acceptance of the need for unions to have basic rights. Does he agree that the constitution will support that point of view?Baroness Turner of Camden
1289"a change to the definition of productivity was vital".12881287: My Lords, my noble friend Lord Marlesford has selected an excellent topic for today's debate. Doubtless the inclusion of the words "official statistics" has frightened off all but the most hearty Members of your Lordships' House—but the small number of us here has been more than made up for by the quality of the debate.1289"a change to the definition of productivity was vital".12881287Baroness Noakes
: My Lords, I have a question before the Minister leaves pensions. I also raised with him how government Ministers used statistics in a way that was not consistent with their underlying worth at the time, as noted by the ONS. The issue was how politics and statistics were pulled together. Will the Minister say something on that?Baroness Noakes
[0fficial Report,"One of the most important roles is to change consumption of energy in our homes and buildings".—[0fficial Report,13201319"We commend the EU for showing leadership in drawing up such a comprehensive and relevant set of measures".1318: My Lords, I have found the debate this evening absolutely fascinating. I congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Haworth. on his vivid picture of the reality on the ground of some of the effects of climate change. I remember how struck I was four years ago in the High Atlas—I am ashamed to say, not as a mountaineer—to find that the snow, even in January, was limited to a few streaks of white on the peaks. It
[0fficial Report,"One of the most important roles is to change consumption of energy in our homes and buildings".—[0fficial Report,13201319"We commend the EU for showing leadership in drawing up such a comprehensive and relevant set of measures".1318Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
Baroness Amos.:
My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, I pay tribute to the noble Baroness, Lady Boothroyd, for her heroic efforts in leading Members of Parliament in 1998–99 to success in getting some of "Yesterday in Parliament" put back on FM, but should not the goal, in view of the tremendous importance of the matter, be to get back to the pre-1998 position?Lord Acton
: My Lords, before the noble Lord concludes, would he be so good as to bear in mind that the drafting of this amendment really does create confusion? I confess that I was the chairman of the only official committee since 1870 to advise Parliament on the way that statutes should be drafted. One of the matters that concerned us very much was the bringing together of too much in one amendment or one clause. It seems to me that this is a typical example of the way in which we should avoid drafting. At least two separate clauses should have been put forward in respect of it.Lord Renton
1407Page 41. line 23, after "the" insert "behavioural,"of Bolton moved Amendment No. 91:
1407Page 41. line 23, after "the" insert "behavioural,"Baroness Morris
1420Official Report,"Only if we introduce a ring-fenced grant will local authorities and their schools be able to plan more firmly and take into account funding increases".—[Official Report,1419"(5A) An authority's schools' budget will include such amount as the authority may determine for meeting expenditure by the authority to secure improvement in the provision of services by some or all schools within its area.""( ) "After subsection (5) insert—Page 135, line 30, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 106:
1420Official Report,"Only if we introduce a ring-fenced grant will local authorities and their schools be able to plan more firmly and take into account funding increases".—[Official Report,1419"(5A) An authority's schools' budget will include such amount as the authority may determine for meeting expenditure by the authority to secure improvement in the provision of services by some or all schools within its area.""( ) "After subsection (5) insert—Page 135, line 30, at end insert—Baroness Walmslev
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that some years ago the BBC sought to change the timing of its parliamentary broadcasting and strong representations were made for it not to do so? On behalf of the Commons, I made some representations, and I saw the chairman of the BBC at the time. However, in its wisdom, the BBC changed the timing of its parliamentary broadcasting, with the result that the audience took a nosedive, and it had to produce evidence to that effect. I believe that it changed some programmes back as a result of its experience. Does the Minister not think that, having had its fingers burnt on one occasion, the BBC may leave things well alone?Baroness Boothroyd
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware—I am sure she is—that there is currently in this country a delegation of politicians from Bosnia Herzegovina who are very anxious indeed for tangible support for their efforts to get nearer to the European Union? They are very much looking to Britain to take a leading part in obtaining EU help and support. Can she take that further?Lord Dubs
: My Lords, I understand that my noble friend does not want to get into individual cases, and so I shall not pursue him about Westminster City Council, but would he agree in general terms that public interest should exonerate a local councillor who has raised an issue from the disciplinary effect of the Standards Board? In fact, public interest ought to be a key test of whether conduct has been proper.Lord Dubs
Daily Express1390138913881387Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy,Drinking Responsibly,: My Lords, none of this comes as a surprise to me. I have had the advantage of reading the briefing from the British Beer and Pub Association, the Local Government Association and the Central Council for Physical Recreation. My only surprise is how noble Lords opposite can stand up and quote both views at the same time. The Local Government Association wants higher fees and the British Beer and Pub Association wants lower fees. Yet, somehow, the noble Lords, Lord Clement-Jones and Lord Luke, manage to straddle that contradiction and argue in one part of their speeches for higher fees and in another part for lower fees. When they have sorted that out with themselves and with their own consciences, perhaps we may have a more rational debate than we have had today.Daily Express1390138913881387Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy,Drinking Responsibly,The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
: My Lords, I apologise.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, of course we will; that is why it will be an independent review. The examples that the noble Lord gave to which I referred are exactly those that will not be in bands A or B. My argument is that those cannot conceivably be described as struggling sports clubs.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that in many places reference to making a complaint to the Standards Board is becoming a totally unjustified political tactic to attempt to smear political opponents? The person complained against is not informed by the Standards Board that the complaint has been made until it starts to look at it, and that might not be for several months. Meanwhile, the whole matter might have been dragged through the local press in a totally unfair and unacceptable way.Lord Greaves
(Lord Lester of Herne Hill.): My Lords, I understand that no amendments have been set down to this Bill and that no noble Lord has indicated a wish to move a manuscript amendment or to speak in Committee. Therefore, unless any noble Lord objects, I beg to move that the order of commitment be discharged.(Lord Lester of Herne Hill.)Lord Lester of Herne Hill
1386"represent a triple whammy of regulatory costs which many small businesses will struggle to bear"."to run licensing regimes in their own areas … [and] to be in the driving seat","may imperfectly achieve their policy objectives".1385: My Lords, these regulations provide for the determination of the fees to accompany the making of applications and the giving of notices under the Licensing Act 2003 and the payment of those fees.
1386"represent a triple whammy of regulatory costs which many small businesses will struggle to bear"."to run licensing regimes in their own areas … [and] to be in the driving seat","may imperfectly achieve their policy objectives".1385Lord Luke
: My Lords, I beg to move that that House do now adjourn during pleasure until 2.45 p.m.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is a matter for the BBC, not for the Government. It is a matter for the Government that the BBC fulfils its broad remit in terms of its public obligation. My noble friend will recognise that it would be entirely inappropriate for the Government to express a view on a particular editorial decision.Lord Davies of Oldham
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Clause 59.—(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Schedules 12 and 13,Clauses 54 to 58,Schedule 11,Clause 53,Schedule 10,Clauses 46 to 52,Schedule 9,Clauses 26 to 45,Schedule 8,Clauses 23 to 25,Schedule 7,Clause 22,Schedule 6,Clauses 20 and 21,Schedule 5,Clauses 5 to 19,Schedule 4,Clauses 3 and 4,Schedule 3,Clause 2,Schedules 1 and 2,Clause 1,
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Clause 59.—(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Schedules 12 and 13,Clauses 54 to 58,Schedule 11,Clause 53,Schedule 10,Clauses 46 to 52,Schedule 9,Clauses 26 to 45,Schedule 8,Clauses 23 to 25,Schedule 7,Clause 22,Schedule 6,Clauses 20 and 21,Schedule 5,Clauses 5 to 19,Schedule 4,Clauses 3 and 4,Schedule 3,Clause 2,Schedules 1 and 2,Clause 1,: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Clause 59.—(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Schedules 12 and 13,Clauses 54 to 58,Schedule 11,Clause 53,Schedule 10,Clauses 46 to 52,Schedule 9,Clauses 26 to 45,Schedule 8,Clauses 23 to 25,Schedule 7,Clause 22,Schedule 6,Clauses 20 and 21,Schedule 5,Clauses 5 to 19,Schedule 4,Clauses 3 and 4,Schedule 3,Clause 2,Schedules 1 and 2,Clause 1,
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Clause 59.—(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Schedules 12 and 13,Clauses 54 to 58,Schedule 11,Clause 53,Schedule 10,Clauses 46 to 52,Schedule 9,Clauses 26 to 45,Schedule 8,Clauses 23 to 25,Schedule 7,Clause 22,Schedule 6,Clauses 20 and 21,Schedule 5,Clauses 5 to 19,Schedule 4,Clauses 3 and 4,Schedule 3,Clause 2,Schedules 1 and 2,Clause 1,Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, it is clearly the right of parliamentarians to make representations in this respect. As the noble Baroness indicated, she did so to a certain extent in the past. It would be odd if the BBC did not take note of such representations, but the House will recognise that that is different from asking the Government to make representations about a particular programme.Lord Davies of Oldham
1339: My Lords, no representations have been made. The agreement between the Government and the BBC requires the corporation to transmit an impartial day-by-day account, prepared by
1339Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I am sure that the Secretary of State would benefit from inspiration from any quarter. Let me reassure the House that the Green Paper is imminent, and therefore the noble Lord will not have to contain his impatience too long.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I am second to none in applauding the excellent work done by this House, but the noble Baroness perhaps underestimates the extent to which video recording is now available in households in the United Kingdom. The actual timing of programmes is not as important as it was in the past. I am sure that the BBC will recognise the strength of opinion expressed from the Opposition Front Bench.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, my noble friend is right, and that will be seen when the Green Paper emerges. I cannot presume too much, but it will be recognised that we continue to regard the public service obligation of the BBC as including the proper coverage of developments in Parliament.Lord Davies of Oldham
Evening Standard,: My Lords, my noble friend referred to media speculation. I think that the speculation was fairly limited. On the whole, I would prefer to believe the BBC's position, rather than speculation in other parts of the media. I understand that the BBC wrote to the Evening Standard,Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I do not think that the noble Lord will find that to be the public response to the Green Paper. As the noble Lord will recognise, a timetable was set out for the consultation that the BBC has carried out on the renewal of the charter and the report on the work of the noble Lord, Lord Burns. It is timely for the Government to respond. There is probably no time when a report on, and discussion about, the BBC would not generate a fair degree of political controversy.Lord Davies of Oldham
1349: My Lords, we are grateful to the Minister for his response to the points made by my colleague the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Portsmouth, who, unfortunately, is unable to be in his place today. The amendments extend to the authorities responsible for all faith schools the powers
1349The Lord Bishop of Coventry
1377: My Lords, I resonate very much with what the noble Baroness has just been saying. This is a very thorny issue for all of us who are
1377The Lord Bishop of Coventry
13741373: My Lords, I would genuinely welcome a proper and full debate on special education needs at some stage in the Chamber, mainly because it is one of my day job responsibilities, which I am pleased to have, but also because that would be more appropriate than having it on a passing Education Bill which is essentially about the inspection system. I shall have difficulty in being brief, given the importance and complexity of these issues, but I shall do my best.13741373Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I beg to move that further consideration on Report be now adjourned. In moving the Motion I suggest that the Report stage begin again not before 2.45 p.m.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I have not as yet succeeded in my endeavour to persuade the opposition parties to clear their amendments with me before tabling them.Lord Filkin
140214011400: My Lords, these are important issues, which were touched on earlier in our proceedings. I am glad to have the opportunity to set out the Government's position. As the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, will not be surprised to hear, we would not in principle or practice want to adjust policy in a way that would lead to the very
140214011400Lord Filkin
: My Lords. I am glad there is unanimity. We always do what the opposition parties tell us to do when we think it makes sense. We have put the word in a different place only because parliamentary counsel thinks that that makes even more sense.Lord Filkin
14061405: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for speaking clearly to what is, in a sense, behind the
14061405Lord Filkin
Page 41, line 23. after "moral," insert "behavioural,"moved Amendment No. 92:
Page 41, line 23. after "moral," insert "behavioural,"Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I am glad to say that I substantially agree, and that we will bring forward an amendment at Third Reading that will add the desirability of securing that the school workforce is fitted and trained to contribute to children's well-being—within the meaning given to the word by Section 10 of the Children Act—in those things that the agency is obliged to do. I am doubly delighted because I have, as part of the day job, responsibility for vulnerable children and well understand the importance of the provision. I hope that that is helpful.Lord Filkin
Page 122, line 25, leave out "with the approval of the Treasury"Page 122, line 18, leave out "with the approval of the Treasury"Page 122, line 14, leave out from "General" to end of line 16 and insert "by such time as the Secretary of State may direct."Page 120, line 37, leave out "Treasury" and insert "Minister for the Civil Service"Page 120, line 31, leave out from second "the" to "may" in line 32 and insert "Minister for the Civil Service, at such times as the Minister may direct, such sums as the Minister"Page 120, line 27, leave out from "State" to end of line.moved Amendments Nos. 97 to 102:
Page 122, line 25, leave out "with the approval of the Treasury"Page 122, line 18, leave out "with the approval of the Treasury"Page 122, line 14, leave out from "General" to end of line 16 and insert "by such time as the Secretary of State may direct."Page 120, line 37, leave out "Treasury" and insert "Minister for the Civil Service"Page 120, line 31, leave out from second "the" to "may" in line 32 and insert "Minister for the Civil Service, at such times as the Minister may direct, such sums as the Minister"Page 120, line 27, leave out from "State" to end of line.Lord Filkin
1414: My Lords, I can support the objective behind the amendment but I hope to persuade the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, that it is not literally needed.1414Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, has made some interesting suggestions. I shall not reply to them fully, but we will reflect on them in the department.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I am happy to give that assurance. I am strongly advised that "consult" is legally stronger and that the measures that we have tabled will achieve what the right reverend Prelate seeks: that the relevant diocesan authority will have a good and proper influence on those issues. That is exactly what we want to achieve.Lord Filkin
Page 30, line 12, at end insert "after consultation with any person so prescribed"moved Amendment No. 59:
Page 30, line 12, at end insert "after consultation with any person so prescribed"Lord Filkin
Page 31, line 17, at end insert "after consultation with any person so prescribed"Page 31, line 16, after "governors" insert "after consultation with any person prescribed for the purposes of this subsection in relation to the religion or religious denomination that is specified in relation to the school under section 69(4) of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998"moved Amendments Nos. 62 and 63:
Page 31, line 17, at end insert "after consultation with any person so prescribed"Page 31, line 16, after "governors" insert "after consultation with any person prescribed for the purposes of this subsection in relation to the religion or religious denomination that is specified in relation to the school under section 69(4) of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998"Lord Filkin
Page 93, line 25, leave out paragraph 1.moved Amendment No. 64:
Page 93, line 25, leave out paragraph 1.Lord Filkin
Page 97, line 24, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)".Page 97, line 16, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 97, line 8, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 97, line 5, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 96, line 34, leave out "subsection (2)" and insert "subsection (1B)(a)"Page 96, line 23, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 96, line 7, leave out "subsection (2)" and insert "subsection (1B)(a)""1A In Schedule 4 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967, omit the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals"."1350Page 93, line 29, at end insert—moved Amendments Nos. 65 to 72:
Page 97, line 24, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)".Page 97, line 16, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 97, line 8, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 97, line 5, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 96, line 34, leave out "subsection (2)" and insert "subsection (1B)(a)"Page 96, line 23, leave out "section 12(2)" and insert "section 12(1B)(a)"Page 96, line 7, leave out "subsection (2)" and insert "subsection (1B)(a)""1A In Schedule 4 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967, omit the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals"."1350Page 93, line 29, at end insert—Lord Filkin
(Lord Filkin.)1343: My Lords, I beg to move that the Bill be now further considered on Report.(Lord Filkin.)1343The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
Page 77, line 38, leave out from "England," to ", and" in line 40 and insert "section 12(1) to (1B) of the Education Act 2005 (duty of Chief Inspector to send draft report to governing body or proprietor, to consider their comments and to state opinion in report)"moved Amendment No. 56:
Page 77, line 38, leave out from "England," to ", and" in line 40 and insert "section 12(1) to (1B) of the Education Act 2005 (duty of Chief Inspector to send draft report to governing body or proprietor, to consider their comments and to state opinion in report)"Lord Filkin
Page 78, line 14, leave out "subsection (3)" and insert "subsection (1B)(b)"moved Amendment No. 57:
Page 78, line 14, leave out "subsection (3)" and insert "subsection (1B)(b)"Lord Filkin
Page 30, line 11, after "governors" insert "after consultation with any person prescribed for the purposes of this subsection in relation to the religion or religious denomination that is specified in relation to the school under section 69(4) of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998"moved Amendment No. 58:
Page 30, line 11, after "governors" insert "after consultation with any person prescribed for the purposes of this subsection in relation to the religion or religious denomination that is specified in relation to the school under section 69(4) of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998"Lord Filkin
13541353: My Lords, I fear that this will be a matter on which we shall not agree. That is exactly because the Government's policy is that increased choice of new providers, when there is to he a new school either as a result of an increase in the need for places or as the product of a reorganisation, is in the interest of parents and pupils. That is the explicit reason why with the Bill we have widened the existing legislation, which requires competitions only for additional schools, and widened the circumstances about which the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has spoken.13541353Lord Filkin
1356: My Lords, I broadly agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, that it is essential
1356Lord Filkin
1358(3C) Regulations may prescribe requirements to be met by the local education authority in relation to consultation under subsection (3A)."(3B) In subsection (3A) "the relevant matters" means the matters to be specified under subsection (3)(a) and (c) in the notice."(3A) Before publishing a notice under this section, the local education authority must consult any prescribed persons, and such other persons as appear to the authority to be appropriate, about such of the relevant matters as may be prescribed or (if none are prescribed) about such of the relevant matters as appear to the authority to be appropriate.1357Page 39, line 22. at end insert—moved Amendment No. 75:
1358(3C) Regulations may prescribe requirements to be met by the local education authority in relation to consultation under subsection (3A)."(3B) In subsection (3A) "the relevant matters" means the matters to be specified under subsection (3)(a) and (c) in the notice."(3A) Before publishing a notice under this section, the local education authority must consult any prescribed persons, and such other persons as appear to the authority to be appropriate, about such of the relevant matters as may be prescribed or (if none are prescribed) about such of the relevant matters as appear to the authority to be appropriate.1357Page 39, line 22. at end insert—Lord Filkin
"(6A) Regulations may require the local education authority to take prescribed steps for the purpose of promoting public awareness of any proposals published by them under this section."Page 39, line 37, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 76:
"(6A) Regulations may require the local education authority to take prescribed steps for the purpose of promoting public awareness of any proposals published by them under this section."Page 39, line 37, at end insert—Lord Filkin
1360: My Lords, I shall try to do the impossible of being fuller and clearer, and succinct at the same time. These are not necessarily simple issues.1360Lord Filkin
: My Lords, to one extent I would argue that the fact that the powers have never been used shows that they are very effective powers. It is desirable that they are there in the cupboard as a long-stop, ensuring that people pay attention in the rare circumstances when school rationalisation might be at risk of being fudged or ducked because of local political difficulties.Lord Filkin
1421Hansard: My Lords, I shall read 1421HansardLord Filkin
14251424: My Lords, I am not certain that it is clear how much the amendment was focused on our previous debates about activity-led models for constructing funding formulae proposed by the NUT and how funding streams are handled. Let me just put some points on record.14251424Lord Filkin
Hansard1427: My Lords, in Committee we had a debate about the importance of the utility of targets, and I believe there was broad acceptance, although I have heard what the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, has said about the wider context of the targets following the Children Act measures. We talked about the ability of the local authority to carry out its job of providing a challenge function to schools in its area and we talked about the need, as we saw it, of the Secretary of State to be able to hold local authorities to account over targets to improve. Therefore, at Report stage, the focus is tighter and narrower. It is about whether those discussions challenge that debate between the Secretary of State and local authorities and, where it is judged necessary to have such a debate, it is to be based on reality.Hansard1427Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the noble Lord is right. I have been chided by him at earlier stages to keep my responses crisp, but he is absolutely right. Intelligent conversation cannot just be about the average of the total of what is happening in a good authority such as Essex. There also needs to he a dialogue about where the ambition of schools needs to be raised across the piece on particular segments—whether there is a need for change in languages or maths or for geographic or particular social-class based reasons. The data allow for that sort of intelligent discussion between officials in the department and the authority and between the advisers and the authority. However, we are talking essentially about a dialogue between the department and the education authority—albeit going under the skin of the averages—not between the department and individual schools. I agree with the noble Lord on that. It ought to cover such discussions as well.Lord Filkin
14411440: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for her clarification of what lay behind the amendment. To some extent, 1 suspect that what I say initially will deal more with the context rather than the specifics of what she said. But no matter; if she will bear with me, I shall at least ensure that I set that context.14411440Lord Filkin
1444: My Lords, this has been an interesting debate. I shall initially make some points that should be on the record, and then I shall give a reflection.1444Lord Filkin
14321431: My Lords, I shall respond to Amendment No. 111, tabled by the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, as well as to Amendment No. 110, so that we can have a more collective discussion.14321431Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I gave the rodomontade that I did at the beginning because I was describing that we are in the middle of a policy process in which we are considering by what processes we stimulate the system to go further—much further—into the future. That is what I was saying in the Lord Northbourne debate. I am beginning my candour in opening up to the House. It is always a mistake.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I was seeking to say that we are not minded to change the removal of the annual meeting. According to evidence we have seen, that is a superfluous obligation and we should remove superfluous obligations. I was trying to treat the House seriously in indicating that and was not making a debating point by saying "No, we won't do that". I was signalling that there is some pretty serious work going on in our present discussions about the agenda of parental involvement in education. I and my officials are very keen on it; we hope to be in a position to have a wider debate during this year. Here is just a teeny element of that wider discussion, and I assure noble Lords that we will come forward with further thinking and debate it before too long.Lord Filkin
1433: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for giving way. The reason that I am not now leaping at that with both hands is because I clearly signalled that we are in the middle of a policy process. We have not concluded that process. Also, while I see
1433Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I thought they were like immigration and asylum Acts; we are guaranteed one every year.Lord Filkin
1434: My Lords, we too want to make sure that all parents receive a copy of the school profile. The guidance accompanying the profile will make this clear to schools. The guidance will provide for all schools to give a hard copy of the profile to parents, except where parents have requested information electronically.1434Lord Filkin
au fait1450: My Lords, we seem to be having a sequence of rather thoughtful debates at this stage of the Bill, which is not quite what you expect. I do not mean that in any way other than seriously. I shall first of all describe where we are, and then respond more fully to the spirit of the debate, rather than just the literal aspects of the amendment.au fait1450Lord Filkin
14541453: The purpose of this amendment is to recast one of the key provisions of Part 8 of the Education Act 2002. Broadly speaking, this provides powers to the Secretary of State and the National
14541453Lord Filkin
Hansard: My Lords, the prompt was well received, is the short answer. This could have been part of our more general discussion earlier, so I will not go on at excessive length. I agree with a lot of what the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has said and must make sure that I read it in HansardLord Filkin
Admission arrangements to make special provision for looked-after children"section (Admission arrangements to make special provision for looked-after childrenPage 62, line 35, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 132:
Admission arrangements to make special provision for looked-after children"section (Admission arrangements to make special provision for looked-after childrenPage 62, line 35, at end insert—Lord Filkin
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)Page 146, line 15, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 133:
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)
In Schedule 4, the entry beginning "Registered Inspectors of Schools Appeal Tribunals".""Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)Page 146, line 15, at end insert—Lord Filkin
1460: My Lords, I understand and agree with the interest in the detail of the regulations and the importance of getting them right. However, the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, will not be surprised to hear that I do not believe that the amendment is necessary or appropriate, although the fulfilment of his concerns is. I am told that on the Buckinghamshire/Bromley issue, the money was capital and I am sure that that makes a great deal of difference to the noble Lord. I was also thinking, "I bet that the one which got more kept quiet but the other one didn't". Let me not be flippant.1460Lord Filkin
1332: My Lords, assuming that the European Council looks at the uncertain progress of the draft constitution, does the noble Lord agree that the remarks made last night by the Trade and
1332Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that yesterday a very senior Saudi Arabian delegation visited your Lordships' House to inquire how an appointed Chamber could contribute to the development of democracy? The noble Lords present. of whom I was one, were able to tell them that, provided there was a democratic Chamber to work alongside, an appointed Chamber like your Lordships' House was doing an extremely good job.Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, I am sorry to interject on this matter. I have a great deal of sympathy for the amendment, yet there is something about it which cannot be right.Lord Shutt of Greetland
: My Lords, those restrictions are bad for competitiveness in Europe and for the overall performance of the European economy and I would not want to deny that for a second. But it is also true, as I suspect the noble Lord will agree, that there have been a number of important developments and achievements under the Lisbon programme in the first five years which will be reviewed at the forthcoming meeting. Six million jobs have been created since 1999. The telecommunications industry, by contrast with some of the industries that the noble Lord mentioned, has generated a huge amount of beneficial economic activity. There has also been the liberalisation of the energy markets and the opening up of transport markets. There are real problems to overcome—it would be foolish to deny that—but there are also real achievements as well. I believe that this meeting can build on those achievements and eradicate the problems.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, it will probably surprise no one in the House to know that I share the view of my right honourable friend that the constitution being damaged will make it extremely hard to make further progress on any rational basis in the enlarged Europe. I say so straightforwardly.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, that is absolutely right. The competitiveness of Europe depends on the skills of its people above any other single factor Those programmes add to that platform of skills and they develop them as time goes by. Therefore, under the Lisbon rubric we will most certainly be pressing for all of those things, which are central to both social and economic reform. I can give that assurance.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, although the final agenda has not been drawn up, I suspect that there is likely to be a discussion of the stabilisation pact. As has been widely debated in the media and in both Houses of Parliament, there has been discussion of ways in which the stabilisation pact could be improved. It is my understanding—I am afraid that I am unable to go further than that this morning—that the Commission is looking at a variety of proposals and believes that progress could be made were the discussion to take place.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I have frequently heard canvassed the suggestion that the Parliament should meet in one place. While those of us who like going only to one place can understand the strength of the argument, I also understand that there are many parliamentarians who, for various reasons, believe that moving backwards and forwards brings benefits which are not perhaps instantly apparent to me. However, I will ensure that the noble Baroness's point is conveyed to my ministerial colleagues.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, makes a valuable point. As we urge greater social and economic reform under the Lisbon programme, we have to recall that the goal is greater competitiveness. That is the purpose. Others will judge us on the transparency and extent to which we have the vitality of competition in our regimes.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, it is customary for the spring European Councils to focus on economic reform. The 22 and 23 March Council should give new impetus to the EU's Lisbon economic reform programme and in particular to the immediate priorities of jobs and growth, building on the Commission's spring report published on 2 February. Heads of State and Government may also discuss the stability and growth pact, sustainable development and international issues.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, very briefly, I also welcome the Government's receptiveness to the amendments. In Committee, I qualified my support because I had not had an opportunity to speak with practitioners. Since then, I have spoken with Professor John Adams of the National Association of School Governors, and with a well respected primary teacher who has had to exclude pupils in the past and whose husband is a governor. They both strongly support the principle of involving children as far as possible in the procedures. I am glad to see the Government's receptiveness to that.The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that Answer. The British press, and occasionally even members of the British Government, like to use the argument that all our companies are competitive, open, deregulated, efficient and good for consumers. That is the myth which we often entertain in comparison with wicked continental companies.Lord Dykes
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Dykes
: My Lords, I deplore that, and I would have hoped that steps would have been taken early on to ensure that that is not happening. The board is a new body but with two or three years of operation we ought to be able to snuff out that kind of misuse and abuse of the system, because that is what it is.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I agree but I cannot come up with any suggestions. There is no argument about the process by which councillors are lawfully suspended. Those who have been lawfully suspended, although they are going to court to appeal, are excluded, I understand, from all public office, whether they are a councillor for one or more levels of councils; they are also excluded from being a candidate for a council. There has been evidence in the past that people who were not qualified to stand stood for election, were elected and then got suspended in order to draw attention to an issue. In fact, that sounds like the way in which life Peers came about.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I do not understand that question. The Standards Board exists, and we fund it. There is a small number of staff doing a job, and they have the code of conduct to implement. Their only role is to police the code of conduct. I cannot comment on individual operations. The board is up for review this summer.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I cannot comment on Westminster Council. I understand that, surprisingly, there is no public interest defence for councillors in this situation. Notwithstanding that, the Freedom of Information Act is now law, which it was not when this first started. A review of the Standards Board is being conducted and people can express their views about it until this summer.Lord Rooker
1337: My Lords, I take the noble Baroness's point about parish councillors, and I know that that matter has been raised many times in this House. In principle, if people are in an elected office, I cannot see
1337Lord Rooker
: My Lords, we consider that the Standards Board for England is undertaking the important job of promoting high standards of conduct for members of local authorities in an effective way.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
: My Lords, my answer to that has to be: in general, yes. I do not know all the details and it would obviously be inappropriate to discuss individual cases. But such suspensions cannot be right if someone is overzealous in representation, including being criticised for involving the relevant Member of the other place; that, I believe, is unacceptable. That is my personal view and I think that it is the view of any reasonable person. I draw an analogy with the other place. If something really serious happens there, a Member might be suspended for a fortnight or, for something really, really serious, a month. But being suspended from public office for a year and leaving people unrepresented is a problem. But those are the rules that currently operate with the Standards Board and the Adjudication Panel that follows. I understand that some people have been suspended for longer than a year.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I am sure that the House will welcome the approach of the Minister on this issue. Does he think that the statutory framework is too highly centralised?Earl Attlee
: My Lords, does the Minister believe that the present performance of the stabilisation pact will be under consideration at the prospective Council meeting? Does he expect that we shall have some information that there may be a fundamental reconsideration of its effects?Lord Biffen
1378: My Lords, the word "Wales" brings me to my feet. With responsibility for education being devolved to the National Assembly for Wales, on these occasions we need to have a separate Bill for Wales. Of course, we have our own opportunities in Wales—the opportunities of language and sometimes of remoteness—that need to be dealt with in a specific way.1378Lord Roberts of Llandudno
: My Lords, I urge the Minister to consider seriously the amendment of my noble friend. Justice is tested in that small number of cases of extraordinary fact. The voice of the child must be heard where the parent will not agree to the case either going to appeal or being heard by whatever procedure is available. If that is so, the state should not test which are the extraordinary cases; it should be open to the child to be heard in such a serious matter.Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: My Lords, in recognising the importance of economic reform in order to achieve the Lisbon goals, will my noble friend nevertheless recognise and press for the completion of the education and training programmes like Erasmus, Leonardo, Socrates and Comenius as an essential part of that economic reform of Europe?Lord Harrison
: My Lords, I have to notify the House, in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967, that the Queen has signified her Royal Assent to the following Act:The Deputy Speaker (Lord Brougham and Vaux)
: My Lords, as a resident of Salford, and bishop of the diocese in which Bolton plays a significant part, I am delighted to be able to support in principle the noble Baroness's point. Alas, I cannot go the whole way for, having listened to the brief debate, I think that the positioning of "behavioural" probably comes better after "spiritual" and "moral". However, on such a nice point, it would be a shame to differ, and I am sure that everyone will agree with the Government on it in the end. I add my thanks from these Benches for the important point that the noble Baroness made.The Lord Bishop of Manchester
: My Lords, both are better.Lord Hanningfield
1413"expect to be teaching after 10 years"."New teachers are enthusiastic about the job, but most are unsure just how long they will stay given the workload and bureaucracy".Times Educational Supplement(b) the report shall include an evaluation of the effectiveness of such measures."(a) shall lay before Parliament for approval an annual report detailing the general level of administration within all types of maintained schools and local education authorities and the steps both taken and planned to reduce such burdens, and
(b) the report shall include an evaluation of the effectiveness of such measures."(a) shall lay before Parliament for approval an annual report detailing the general level of administration within all types of maintained schools and local education authorities and the steps both taken and planned to reduce such burdens, and1412The Secretary of State shall exercise his functions with regard to the desirability of avoiding excessive administrative burdens on governing bodies, head teachers, teachers and other school staff of all maintained schools, special schools, pupil referral units and local education authorities in England and—"REDUCING THE BURDEN OF BUREAUCRACY ON SCHOOLSAfter Clause 97, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 104:
1413"expect to be teaching after 10 years"."New teachers are enthusiastic about the job, but most are unsure just how long they will stay given the workload and bureaucracy".Times Educational Supplement(b) the report shall include an evaluation of the effectiveness of such measures."(a) shall lay before Parliament for approval an annual report detailing the general level of administration within all types of maintained schools and local education authorities and the steps both taken and planned to reduce such burdens, and
(b) the report shall include an evaluation of the effectiveness of such measures."(a) shall lay before Parliament for approval an annual report detailing the general level of administration within all types of maintained schools and local education authorities and the steps both taken and planned to reduce such burdens, and1412The Secretary of State shall exercise his functions with regard to the desirability of avoiding excessive administrative burdens on governing bodies, head teachers, teachers and other school staff of all maintained schools, special schools, pupil referral units and local education authorities in England and—"REDUCING THE BURDEN OF BUREAUCRACY ON SCHOOLSAfter Clause 97, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
The Agency shall produce an annual report that shall be laid by the Secretary of State before both Houses of Parliament for affirmative resolution.""ANNUAL REPORT TO PARLIAMENTAfter Clause 74, insert the following new clause—had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 95:
The Agency shall produce an annual report that shall be laid by the Secretary of State before both Houses of Parliament for affirmative resolution.""ANNUAL REPORT TO PARLIAMENTAfter Clause 74, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I agree with the interesting suggestions made by the noble Lord, Lord Dearing. In all our lives, whatever we do, we want to improve things. In discovering how that can be done, there is a likelihood of creating more paperwork and bureaucracy. Sometimes we therefore have to be dramatic and say, "We have to do away with this. We have to do it differently". None of us has done that. The Government and their supporters have not done so and they now admit it. They are constantly increasing paperwork in every sphere. Although they intend to reduce bureaucracy, they do not because they get rid of one bit and create a lot more.Lord Hanningfield
1417: My Lords, on this amendment my name and that of my noble friend Lady Morris are added to those of the noble Baronesses, Lady Sharp and Lady Walmsley. I shall not add much to the debate other than to say that, if we are not careful, we shall create an unelected body that takes decisions on behalf of many people. One has to be very careful how one uses the schools forum. It might be a useful talking shop but it certainly should not be empowered any more than it was under the original Act, as my noble friend Lady Blatch and the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, sought to secure. If
1417Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply and I thank noble Lords who have contributed to the debate. It is an important issue. Part of the Bill is about schools' organisation, although we discussed special needs. This is an opportunity to look at how decisions are taken on organisation and we must not forget that.Lord Hanningfield
1365Subsections (3)(c). (4)(a), (6) and (7) of section 52 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) (exclusion of pupils) shall cease to have effect.""ABOLITION OF INDEPENDENT APPEALS PANELSAfter Clause 69, insert the following new clause— moved Amendment No. 82:
1365Subsections (3)(c). (4)(a), (6) and (7) of section 52 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) (exclusion of pupils) shall cease to have effect.""ABOLITION OF INDEPENDENT APPEALS PANELSAfter Clause 69, insert the following new clause— Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that reply. One has obviously thought quite a lot about this. The independent appeals panels are relatively new in their establishment. There was obviously a situation before them in which I was closely involved. I am probably the only Member of the House to have been involved in literally hundreds of such situations. I have, over many years, met parents and children and worked with head teachers regarding some of these difficult children. This was when I was involved on a day-to-day basis with the education service.Lord Hanningfield
1370(4) The Assembly shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow it to comply with its powers under this section."(3) No special school in Wales shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Assembly.(2) The Secretary of State shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow him to comply with his powers under this section.(1) No special school in England shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Secretary of State.
(4) The Assembly shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow it to comply with its powers under this section."(3) No special school in Wales shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Assembly.(2) The Secretary of State shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow him to comply with his powers under this section.(1) No special school in England shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Secretary of State."CLOSURE OF SPECIAL SCHOOLS IN ENGLAND AND WALESAfter Clause 69, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 84:
1370(4) The Assembly shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow it to comply with its powers under this section."(3) No special school in Wales shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Assembly.(2) The Secretary of State shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow him to comply with his powers under this section.(1) No special school in England shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Secretary of State.
(4) The Assembly shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow it to comply with its powers under this section."(3) No special school in Wales shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Assembly.(2) The Secretary of State shall by regulations prescribe a suitable mechanism to allow him to comply with his powers under this section.(1) No special school in England shall be closed without the prior authorisation of the Secretary of State."CLOSURE OF SPECIAL SCHOOLS IN ENGLAND AND WALESAfter Clause 69, insert the following new clause—Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I thank the Minister and the Government for bringing forward the amendments. It is very rewarding when the Government listen to debates in Committee. It is important that the public are consulted, are aware and have enough time to make their views known.Lord Hanningfield
Hansard: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I reiterate my concern: how the measure is implemented will need to be thought through very carefully. Again, I am supportive of the whole initiative of three-year funding and, in turn, of moving to an academic year. But, because of that complication, it could go dramatically wrong. I shall read in HansardLord Hanningfield
1459(b) Schedule 16."(a) section 98, and
(b) Schedule 16."(a) section 98, and"( ) The following provisions may only come into force after the regulations have been laid before and approved by both Houses of Parliament—moved Amendment No. 134:1459(b) Schedule 16."(a) section 98, and
(b) Schedule 16."(a) section 98, and"( ) The following provisions may only come into force after the regulations have been laid before and approved by both Houses of Parliament—Lord Hanningfield
Hansard: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. We would have preferred to see a provision in the Bill, but his assurances will be in HansardLord Hanningfield
: My Lords, is there not a danger that, by not putting anything in the Bill, people will think it does not matter? That is our point. Although we all agree we want to go further, ignoring it totally in the Bill does not help at all.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I apologise—that wording must have been copied from when the matter last came up. I totally agree with the noble Baroness.Lord Hanningfield
Page 54, line 6, after "prescribed" insert "including all registered parents"moved Amendment No. 112:
Page 54, line 6, after "prescribed" insert "including all registered parents"Lord Hanningfield
1428: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. He seemed to accept what we said. What concerns us is that at the moment targets are set in public sector agreements for school attainment that nobody can reach—they are ridiculous targets. The targets to bear a relationship to the ones that might, as I said just now, help to bring about improvement in a school. That must be an important part and the Minister acknowledged that. It is a pity that that cannot be acknowledged on the face of the Bill so
1428Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, in supporting Amendment No. 110, I shall speak also to our amendment, Amendment No. 111. We were suggesting that the governing body should have the power to call meetings. I believe that the noble Baroness, Lady Andrews, said in Committee that people could have a meeting every week if they wanted one—and some of them might want a meeting every week. If something is included in the Bill, even if it is not obligatory and simply says that the governors should be able to call a parents meeting if they want one, there will be some encouragement to do it.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, before the Minister finishes, there is tremendous variation within local authorities, especially large ones such as Essex. One is looking for totally different improvements in Basildon compared with Chelmsford or Colchester, so it is not just a case of talking to local education authorities but actually looking at schools' improvement. I am sure that the same is the case within a London borough where there are different aspirations for different schools. The whole idea is improvement, but I did not quite get that from the Minister's reply.Lord Hanningfield
"( ) The Secretary of State shall have due regard to published data and evidence from each maintained school or special school and other inspection reports for the local authority's area before modifying a proposed target or requiring an LEA to modify a proposed target in regulations made under subsection (2) above."Page 53, line 9, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 108:
"( ) The Secretary of State shall have due regard to published data and evidence from each maintained school or special school and other inspection reports for the local authority's area before modifying a proposed target or requiring an LEA to modify a proposed target in regulations made under subsection (2) above."Page 53, line 9, at end insert—Lord Hanningfield
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for that response. Is he aware of media speculation this week that as part of the BBC's review of services it has been looking at a cutback in staff and in the "Yesterday in Parliament" programme? Does he agree that that would fly in the face of the BBC's public service responsibilities, and will he make the necessary representations?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
1443: My Lords, I support my noble friend's amendment. I would go a lot further than examination results, because, essentially, the customer for a PRU is the local authority. We have a difficult situation at the moment, with local authorities running PRUs. That is the kind of incestuous relationship that has led to so much difficulty in the past, with children's homes and other institutions run by LEAs. They can become places where no one really cares what the results are. The necessary first step in solving that problem is the publication of detailed, specialist and value-added results. It would do PRUs no harm at all if, on taking a pupil, they had a set of objectives, agreed with the pupil's previous school, against which the pupil's performance was measured when he or she left the PRU, to see how the PRU had performed.1443Lord Lucas
1449: My Lords, the Minister knows my family commitment to prison education so he will not be surprised that I entirely support what noble Lords have said on this occasion. It seems to me crucial that we try to get ourselves into a position where prison education is something to be proud of. We are supposed to be, at heart, a Christian country. Christianity teaches us about the lost sheep being the one to which we should pay attention. That has not been the case in the past—and I am talking about our government's Act so I am not trying to ladle any blame on to the present Government—but this is an area of darkness into which we should shed some light. Light may be pretty zippy—186,000 miles a second—but enlightenment seems to spread much more slowly and these areas of darkness can persist for a long time.1449Lord Lucas
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Hylton
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for her positive Answer. Will she agree that a whole series of recent elections around the world have shown that people want to determine their own future under accountable governments? In that situation, will the Government use every possible means of information and communications technology to strengthen civil and political groups so that lasting, permanent, democratic institutions emerge?Lord Hylton
: My Lords, as one who does not know the procedures in this area, do the Government wait until they are asked or do they just assume that other countries are desperately anxious to reach the same level of efficiency as the British Government have done in this country? Certainly, people who I know in ASEAN are frequently deeply offended by the assumption that former colonial powers still have the right to tell them how to run their countries.Lord Marsh
1372: My Lords, when the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, urges government intervention then I am very impressed and persuaded. From my own experience, while inclusion is right in principle for some children, children with severe learning disabilities need special provision. I know, for example, a school where the learning difficulties are multiple, severe and complex. The principle of inclusion can he pushed too far. While I
1372Lord Dearing
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, I picked up his reference to a committee of officials to control this monster. When I was chairman of the School Curriculum and Assessment Authority, such bureaucracy, load, and all the initiatives were very much on my mind. A deputy secretary was given special responsibility for dealing with this monster and here we are, 10 years later, and it is still with us. It requires a ministerial champion to achieve anything—personal accountability by the Minister. We have discussed the role of HMI and its reports to the Secretary of State. Perhaps HMI might be invited to render reports on this matter and on the progress achieved.Lord Dearing
: My Lords, both are better, but I said "If I have to choose". Let us have that debate again, if your Lordships want it. When the noble Baroness, Lady Andrews, replied to me on physical development, I am sure that she had that in mind in particular rather than physical health. In the clause, teachers are being particularly encouraged to help with the "physical development" of children.Lord Dearing
: My Lords, I am delighted to see the word "behavioural" introduced in the clause and to see it alongside physical and mental development. At least we have here the two words that I fought for in Clauses 2 and 5. As I said, if I have to choose to help the teachers to get behaviour—Lord Dearing
: My Lords, I know that the noble Earl would wish to be here, but I believe that he is at this moment campaigning elsewhere for looked-after children. I am sure that he will return to the issue. Meanwhile, I give grateful thanks.Lord Dearing
1371: My Lords, I wish to support the remarks that have just been made. I have
1371Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
(Lord Clement-Jones.)7th report from the Merits Committed1384Official Report,"in band A, the lowest band, we are proposing an application fee of £100 and a £70 annual charge. In Band B, the application fee will be £190 and the annual charge £180".—[Official Report,Official Report,"The Central Council for Physical Recreation would be well-advised to devote more of its attention to ensuring take-up of mandatory relief, and therefore benefiting local sports clubs, rather than campaigning against licensing charges on which there has been full consultation".—[Official Report,1383Official Report,"We do not believe that the fees will significantly affect the activities of the clubs involved".—[Official Report,"the new licensing measures would be advantageous to everyone in our communities".Official Report,"welcomed by sports clubs, large and small".—[Official Report,"As long as its members can say that their clubs are not 'primarily for drinking' (because they sell food and people dance), they are immunised against fines"."BEDA, the nightclub lobby group, has played a blinder. Not only has it got the hefty PEL monkey off its back, it also seems to have escaped from having been asked to cough up for town centre trouble.Morning Advertiser"the use of the premises exclusively or primarily for the carrying on … of the supply of alcohol for consumption on the premises"."the control of premises selling alcohol would in general give rise to higher costs than other premises, particularly during transition, and particularly where these were situated in town and city centres'."deliver tougher protections … against alcohol related crime and disorder and public nuisance".1382Official Report,"We have undertaken extensive negotiations with local authorities and anyone else who wished to express their views to us before reaching this conclusion. The conclusion is that virtually all local authorities will cover their costs but not make a profit out of the licence fees. That is what we undertook to do at the outset". —[Official Report,1381[7th Report front the Merits Committee].rose to move, That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty praying that the regulations, laid before the House on 20 January, be annulled (S.I. 2005/79) (Lord Clement-Jones.)7th report from the Merits Committed1384Official Report,"in band A, the lowest band, we are proposing an application fee of £100 and a £70 annual charge. In Band B, the application fee will be £190 and the annual charge £180".—[Official Report,Official Report,"The Central Council for Physical Recreation would be well-advised to devote more of its attention to ensuring take-up of mandatory relief, and therefore benefiting local sports clubs, rather than campaigning against licensing charges on which there has been full consultation".—[Official Report,1383Official Report,"We do not believe that the fees will significantly affect the activities of the clubs involved".—[Official Report,"the new licensing measures would be advantageous to everyone in our communities".Official Report,"welcomed by sports clubs, large and small".—[Official Report,"As long as its members can say that their clubs are not 'primarily for drinking' (because they sell food and people dance), they are immunised against fines"."BEDA, the nightclub lobby group, has played a blinder. Not only has it got the hefty PEL monkey off its back, it also seems to have escaped from having been asked to cough up for town centre trouble.Morning Advertiser"the use of the premises exclusively or primarily for the carrying on … of the supply of alcohol for consumption on the premises"."the control of premises selling alcohol would in general give rise to higher costs than other premises, particularly during transition, and particularly where these were situated in town and city centres'."deliver tougher protections … against alcohol related crime and disorder and public nuisance".1382Official Report,"We have undertaken extensive negotiations with local authorities and anyone else who wished to express their views to us before reaching this conclusion. The conclusion is that virtually all local authorities will cover their costs but not make a profit out of the licence fees. That is what we undertook to do at the outset". —[Official Report,1381[7th Report front the Merits Committee].Lord Clement-Jones
: My Lords, it is refreshing to see a Minister develop a head of steam on an issue such as this. I appreciate the trouble that he has taken to respond passionately to the points that I made in the debate. My conscience is entirely clear, because I genuinely feel—Lord Clement-Jones
1392: My Lords, as I said, I could trade all afternoon with the Minister the number of sports clubs that have high rateable values because of their grants but yet do not fall into bands A or B. However, I am content to see what the review comes up with. Suffice it to say that a great many of those clubs that will be paying much higher fees-both initial and ongoing—are clubs that put their money back into sport in the local community. The Minister and I are lucky enough not to have to put ourselves up for election in a few months' time, but I anticipate that that will be an issue on the doorstep, whether or not he can tell me that Heaton squash club falls within the category that I claim.1392Lord Clement-Jones
1391Daily Express: My Lords, the Minister does not need to apologise. It would have been immensely helpful to have seen the 1391Daily ExpressLord Clement-Jones
: My Lords, the issues clearly need to be set in the context of the BBC's public service obligations, but we are awaiting a Green Paper on the renewal of the BBC's charter. Why has it not been published this week? Is the Secretary of State still seeking further inspiration from a Member on our Cross Benches?Lord Clement-Jones
: My Lords, when the Minister next entertains delegations from abroad, will she also take them to the other place and explain that there a party with less than 40 per cent of the votes may well end up with more than 60 per cent of seats and that such an outcome is an insult to an efficient democracy? Can she confirm that the Labour Party is still committed to reforming that outdated and absurd electoral system?Lord McNally
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the growth of democracy does not end with central government issues but that a strong local government is very important in achieving the level of participation to which the Minister referred? That applies equally to this country as it does to others.Lord Laming
: My Lords, may we hope that Her Majesty's Government, in discussing European competitiveness, will be vigorous in pointing out that a number of other governments do not fulfil their commitments? I refer in particular to the Italian Government who are deeply reluctant to open up their banking sector, and to the reluctance of several other governments, including the Germans and the Italians, to open up their university sectors. There is fairly blatant protectionism in favour of nationals and that is bad for Europe's future competitiveness, given the importance of European-level research.Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords, is it altogether wise to publish the Green Paper in advance of the general election? Could not its contents he interpreted as an attempt by the Government to influence the independence and impartiality of the BBC?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I could not agree more. For example, in Georgia, the current focus of our efforts is to facilitate a link between the legislative branch of government and the citizens of Georgia's regions so that local level democracy can be boosted.Baroness Crawley
1336: My Lords, although I welcome the recent elections in Saudi Arabia as progress on the path to reform, I cannot hide from noble Lords our disappointment that women were excluded. Along with our EU partners, we raised our disappointment and concern with the Saudi authorities. In that context, we
1336Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, of course, in this House the party with the smallest number of votes has an overall influence on the votes, way above that voting potential.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I very much support my noble friend's enthusiasm for assisting in that area. Of course, we assist Bosnia Herzegovina bilaterally, with the EU and through our NATO colleagues. As someone who was there during the war more than 10 years ago, I realise how slow the West was to come to the aid of Bosnia.Baroness Crawley
1335: My Lords, we are not telling people how to run their countries. There is no "one size fits all" for democracy. We are saying to people that we will work to support the growth of democracy which is indigenous in countries. As I said, we do that through an enormous amount of funding from the FCO, DfID and the MoD, which provides help and support with mentoring and advice. There is no need for us to justify our enthusiasm
1335Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, perhaps the noble Lord told the delegation that we are a work in progress.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I very much agree with the noble Lord, Lord Hylton, that the election is only the beginning of the process. But the Government's approach is to ensure that everything we do in foreign policy—we may not always call it "promoting democracy"—is geared towards the core universal principles of democracy. Those include the participation of people—the noble Lord talked about people who were desperate to vote, often doing so in difficult and violent circumstances and showing that they want to have their say—transparency, holding governments to account and the rule of law. Those are very important principles, and we follow them up with projects, advice and mentoring in Ukraine, Georgia, Iraq and all over the world.Baroness Crawley
1334: My Lords, the Government will continue their work to strengthen democracy throughout the world. The promotion of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance underpin our foreign policy. Her Majesty's Government promote
1334Baroness Crawley
1448Guardian: My Lords, I warmly support the amendment. I am very concerned that those most in need can be denied an education. Being particularly interested in special educational needs, I consulted the National Children's Bureau. Apart from what the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, said, the bureau said that it is very difficult to access accurate statistical information on the number or proportion of young people in prison custody who have learning difficulties. There are plenty of statistics on the percentage for literacy and numeracy problems, but it is difficult to collate the two. That may be due to the fact that a large number of young people who end up in prison have fallen out of the school system. There is some anecdotal evidence that that is related to their learning difficulties being seen as problem behaviour, and so remaining unidentified and unassessed, which means that they do not enter the SEN statementing process and receive the additional support that they require.1448GuardianBaroness Darcy de Knayth
"pupils who have an illness or diagnosis which indicates prolonged periods of absence from school … need to have access to education so far as possible from day one".1446Juveniles in Custody,1445"We do not find the arguments presented by the Minister for Children and Young People against giving detained juveniles the same rights to education as other children persuasive—indeed we find them puzzlingly contradictory. He argues that such guarantees are unnecessary because the Government is doing all that is required. The same sorts of arguments were made against the application of the Children Act and the consequence was a judicial finding against the Government. We consider the persistence of the Government's resistance to placing the educational rights of young offenders on a statutory footing is a contravention of the UK's international obligations"."No person shall be denied the right to education".Section 562 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) (Act not to apply to persons detained under order of a court) is repealed."Education of detained children and young persons"Education of detained children and young persons"Education of detained children and young personsAfter Clause 112, insert the following new clause—
"Education of detained children and young persons"Education of detained children and young personsmoved Amendment No. 128:
"pupils who have an illness or diagnosis which indicates prolonged periods of absence from school … need to have access to education so far as possible from day one".1446Juveniles in Custody,1445"We do not find the arguments presented by the Minister for Children and Young People against giving detained juveniles the same rights to education as other children persuasive—indeed we find them puzzlingly contradictory. He argues that such guarantees are unnecessary because the Government is doing all that is required. The same sorts of arguments were made against the application of the Children Act and the consequence was a judicial finding against the Government. We consider the persistence of the Government's resistance to placing the educational rights of young offenders on a statutory footing is a contravention of the UK's international obligations"."No person shall be denied the right to education".Section 562 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) (Act not to apply to persons detained under order of a court) is repealed."Education of detained children and young persons"Education of detained children and young persons"Education of detained children and young personsAfter Clause 112, insert the following new clause—
"Education of detained children and young persons"Education of detained children and young personsBaroness Thornton
1451: My Lords, I cannot imagine what my noble friend the Minister means by being "spared".1451Baroness Thornton
: Yes, my Lords, I can give the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, the assurance. I can assure her that the intention of the term "providing services" in Clauses 104 and 106 is to cover those persons who are providing particular services to this department, the Inland Revenue, or the Department for Work and Pensions by a legally binding contract; for example, IT contractors, or those who provide those services under appropriate legislation.Baroness Andrews
1437"(5A) The references in subsections (4) and (5)(b) to a local education authority include references to any person exercising on behalf of such an authority functions relating to eligibility for free school lunches and milk."Page 57, line 37, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 122:
1437"(5A) The references in subsections (4) and (5)(b) to a local education authority include references to any person exercising on behalf of such an authority functions relating to eligibility for free school lunches and milk."Page 57, line 37, at end insert—Baroness Andrews
"(6A) In this section, "school lunch" has the same meaning as in section 512 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56)."Page 57, line 46, at end insert—Page 57, line 39, leave out "(as defined in section 512 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56))"moved Amendments Nos. 123 and 124:
"(6A) In this section, "school lunch" has the same meaning as in section 512 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56)."Page 57, line 46, at end insert—Page 57, line 39, leave out "(as defined in section 512 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56))"Baroness Andrews
1435"(1A) Regulations may require the admission authorities for maintained schools to include in their admission arrangements such provision relating to the admission of children who are looked after by a local authority (within the meaning of section 22 of the Children Act 1989) as may be prescribed, which may in particular include provision for securing that, subject to sections 86(3) and (3A) and 87 (cases where duty to comply with parental preference does not apply), such children are to be offered admission in preference to other children.""In section 89 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (procedure for determining admission arrangements) after subsection (1) insert—"ADMISSION ARRANGEMENTS TO MAKE SPECIAL PROVISION FOR LOOKED-AFTER CHILDRENAfter Clause 102, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 114:
1435"(1A) Regulations may require the admission authorities for maintained schools to include in their admission arrangements such provision relating to the admission of children who are looked after by a local authority (within the meaning of section 22 of the Children Act 1989) as may be prescribed, which may in particular include provision for securing that, subject to sections 86(3) and (3A) and 87 (cases where duty to comply with parental preference does not apply), such children are to be offered admission in preference to other children.""In section 89 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (procedure for determining admission arrangements) after subsection (1) insert—"ADMISSION ARRANGEMENTS TO MAKE SPECIAL PROVISION FOR LOOKED-AFTER CHILDRENAfter Clause 102, insert the following new clause—Baroness Andrews
13481347"State parties shall assure to the child who is capable of forming his or her own views the right to express those views freely in all matters affecting the child".: My Lords, we are at one with the intention of the amendment, and I am sorry the noble Baroness has had to wait so long to arrive at this point—she was very patient with us the other night. We did debate an earlier version and I promised we would reflect in the light of the issues. We have done so, not least in relation to the point made by the noble Earl, Lord Listowel. We were grateful that the noble Baroness drew attention to the research project commissioned by Save the Children Fund, and we have looked at it closely. I am not aware of any other research, but we will look at that.13481347"State parties shall assure to the child who is capable of forming his or her own views the right to express those views freely in all matters affecting the child".Baroness Andrews
13971396: My Lords, with the leave of the house, I will address the specific impact of the amendment put down by the noble Baroness, which would prevent regulations from allowing proposals for a change in the category of school to be approved other than by the school organisation committee. I hope that I can persuade her about the virtues of what that would mean for schools. I will set out briefly the background to the provisions for schools changing categories.13971396Baroness Andrews
13801379: My Lords, we have had a short but excellent debate. Noble Lords have spoken eloquently and very succinctly, and I shall certainly try to be succinct. In particular, I want to pick up on the motif introduced by the noble Lord, Lord Shutt, concerning the last public place. I also want to speak about the interests of the children being paramount. The Government absolutely agree with that sentiment. We now have great scope for developing rural schools so that they become the heart of the community to a greater rather than a lesser extent. That is a huge opportunity for us and I hope to be able to explain how supportive the Government are of that idea.13801379Baroness Andrews
1366: I am pleased that the noble Lord has found the correct section of the Act. I wish that I could say that having done so, we have changed our mind, but I cannot. I do not want to reiterate too much of what I said in Committee, but I want to make it clear that he and I are completely at one about the importance of an orderly and safe environment in schools as an essential condition for effective learning.1366Baroness Andrews
1411Page 120, leave out lines 18 and 19.moved Amendment No. 96:
1411Page 120, leave out lines 18 and 19.Baroness Andrews
tour de forceHansard: My Lords, I suspect that the unholy alliance rides again. I must say to the noble Baroness that I cannot respond in kind to the forensic analysis that she has offered. This is an instance when we shall read tour de forceHansardBaroness Andrews
1408: My Lords, I shall be very brief. I congratulate both the Government and the noble
1408Baroness Howe of Idlicote
1430: My Lords, I support the intention of keeping all the issues open until we are
1430Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I merely add to everyone's praise for the amendment. I am absolutely certain that the noble Earl would be beaming with delight about it. It is a step in a direction for which he has been campaigning. I would love to think that it might be followed a little later by there being a special duty on a particular school governor to keep a friendly and beneficial eye on such children. In the mean time, everyone is very grateful.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I will speak very briefly on this amendment. Having listened to what has been said and also having read this very detailed and convincing document from a number of children's charities represented to us by the National Children's Home, I think that the case is overwhelming. Apart from anything else, given the fact that we know how inadequate the education process has been for the children who end up in custody or mental health institutions, we should use the opportunity when we have these children detained. As they are behind closed doors, what better opportunity to concentrate almost the entire time on these issues? We should update their skills and increase their basic education so that they have a better opportunity when returned to ordinary civilian life of leading as normal a life as humanly possible with much better opportunities.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I would like very strongly to support this amendment. There is often a difficulty where children with special needs are lumped together as if their needs were all the same. That is far from true. It has also become very much the habit of the Government to talk of special schools with a kind of qualified respect as suitable for children with very severe and complex needs.Baroness Warnock
: My Lords, I welcome the emergence and strengthening of democracy throughout the world, but can my noble friend tell me the Government's response to the fact that in recent local elections in Saudi Arabia women were not allowed to participate?Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
: My Lords, I rise to support the spirit of the amendment tabled by the noble Baroness, Lady Turner. I think that we are all agreed that we must always listen to the voice of the child. I, too, welcome what the Government are doing to bring forward better guidance and regulations to ensure that that voice is always heard.Baroness Walmsley
1355"( ) When considering whether to grant consent to publish under subsection (2), the Secretary of State shall have regard to any representations made by the local education authority for the area in which the school is proposed, and any other local education authority likely to be affected by the proposal."Page 38, line 20, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 74:
1355"( ) When considering whether to grant consent to publish under subsection (2), the Secretary of State shall have regard to any representations made by the local education authority for the area in which the school is proposed, and any other local education authority likely to be affected by the proposal."Page 38, line 20, at end insert—Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that clarification, especially for confirming the procedures available to local authorities and, in particular, the possibility of judicial review challenge. In that case, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, from these Benches we support the Government's inclusion agenda where it is suitable for the child. We also agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Warnock, that inclusion is not suitable for every child. The needs of the individual child must be catered for properly. but that creates problems.Baroness Walmsley
1362: My Lords, your Lordships may have noticed a few wry smiles on these Benches while listening to the words of the noble Baroness, Lady Morris of Bolton. I very much welcome the conversion of the Conservative Benches to the idea of local accountability and criticism of centralisation, given what happened in 18 years of Conservative government. However, we are dealing with this Government at the moment.1362Baroness Walmsley
1398: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for her detailed reply. I shall deal with her points in order.1398Baroness Walmsley
1395Official Report,"to develop a distinctive ethos and make them more responsive to changing demands".—[Official Report,"for schools"—Official Report,"when it has plenty of other extremely important and challenging business to do, without undertaking that bureaucratic process"".—[Official Report,"it would be a sham for the school organisation committee to be engaged in",1394Official Report,"designed effectively to frustrate the intention set out in the Government's five-year strategy".—[Official Report,"to make other provision about school education".1393"( ) In Schedule 8 to the Schools Standard and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (changes of category of school), in paragraph 2(2) after "modifications" insert "except that in all cases the School Organisation committee must approve the change of category"."Page 118, line 32, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 86:
1395Official Report,"to develop a distinctive ethos and make them more responsive to changing demands".—[Official Report,"for schools"—Official Report,"when it has plenty of other extremely important and challenging business to do, without undertaking that bureaucratic process"".—[Official Report,"it would be a sham for the school organisation committee to be engaged in",1394Official Report,"designed effectively to frustrate the intention set out in the Government's five-year strategy".—[Official Report,"to make other provision about school education".1393"( ) In Schedule 8 to the Schools Standard and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (changes of category of school), in paragraph 2(2) after "modifications" insert "except that in all cases the School Organisation committee must approve the change of category"."Page 118, line 32, at end insert—Baroness Walmsley
"was at CPD managers conference with the GTC where they were advocating putting CPD money into school budgets. I'm afraid I was very argumentative because I feel passionate that teachers have an entitlement to CPD. The Year 4 and 5 bursaries were brilliant for this. We have also been involved as a school in many of the research bursaries which again have involved staff working together in our school and across a network of schools. I strongly feel that the professional bodies need to protect this for all teachers—and support staff. CPD should not be dependent upon a schools budget.""where they are recovering from a massive deficit brought about by too many reasons to list here. They have limited their 'external' CPD programmes and also day time programmes in order to cut these costs. The teaching staff were involved in these discussions as were the support staff and it is only with their support that it has been possible to set up extensive in-house mentoring programmes, twilight sessions for information exchanges and other such cost-effective solutions … My biggest concern is that all talk seems to be about funding Teachers CPD but with little mention of Support Staff whose role is increasing and changing constantly".Official Report,"There has been a substantial delegation of funding into schools for teacher development so that they themselves have the appropriate resources".—[Official Report,Official Report,"Does he mean that schools will now get additional funding to meet the training and development needs of support staff as well as teachers?".—[Official Report,1404Page 41, line 17, leave out "and efficiency"moved Amendment No. 88:
"was at CPD managers conference with the GTC where they were advocating putting CPD money into school budgets. I'm afraid I was very argumentative because I feel passionate that teachers have an entitlement to CPD. The Year 4 and 5 bursaries were brilliant for this. We have also been involved as a school in many of the research bursaries which again have involved staff working together in our school and across a network of schools. I strongly feel that the professional bodies need to protect this for all teachers—and support staff. CPD should not be dependent upon a schools budget.""where they are recovering from a massive deficit brought about by too many reasons to list here. They have limited their 'external' CPD programmes and also day time programmes in order to cut these costs. The teaching staff were involved in these discussions as were the support staff and it is only with their support that it has been possible to set up extensive in-house mentoring programmes, twilight sessions for information exchanges and other such cost-effective solutions … My biggest concern is that all talk seems to be about funding Teachers CPD but with little mention of Support Staff whose role is increasing and changing constantly".Official Report,"There has been a substantial delegation of funding into schools for teacher development so that they themselves have the appropriate resources".—[Official Report,Official Report,"Does he mean that schools will now get additional funding to meet the training and development needs of support staff as well as teachers?".—[Official Report,1404Page 41, line 17, leave out "and efficiency"Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords. I thank the Minister for his reply. It is certainly encouraging to hear about the increase of around 10 per cent in the CPD budget. The challenges to teachers these days are enormous—not just with changes in curriculum. For example, there is the citizenship curriculum which, at about two or three years old, is very young. I was talking to some teachers only the other day about how they were teaching it. They are still feeling their way and relying very much on CPD and networking among themselves to develop best practice in teaching the new curriculum. The enormous changes in school organisation will also require many teachers. So CPD is vital.Baroness Walmsley
1410: My Lords, it is indeed helpful. I thank the Minister for that. I am sure that he was
1410Baroness Walmsley
Every Child Matters1409"Safeguarding children should not be seen as a separate activity from promoting their welfare. They are two sides of the same coin. Promoting welfare has a wider, more positive, action centred approach embedded in a philosophy of creating opportunities to
1409Framework for Assessment of Children in Need and their Families"for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of","to the desirability of securing that the school workforce is well fitted and trained to promote the spiritual, moral, social, cultural. mental and physical development of,""to promote careers in the school workforce, … to improve the quality … of all routes into the school workforce, and … to secure the involvement of schools in all courses and programmes for the initial training of school teachers"."to contribute to raising the standards of teaching".Page 41, line 24, after "people" insert ", to safeguard and promote their welfare"moved Amendment No. 93:
Every Child Matters1409"Safeguarding children should not be seen as a separate activity from promoting their welfare. They are two sides of the same coin. Promoting welfare has a wider, more positive, action centred approach embedded in a philosophy of creating opportunities to
1409Framework for Assessment of Children in Need and their Families"for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of","to the desirability of securing that the school workforce is well fitted and trained to promote the spiritual, moral, social, cultural. mental and physical development of,""to promote careers in the school workforce, … to improve the quality … of all routes into the school workforce, and … to secure the involvement of schools in all courses and programmes for the initial training of school teachers"."to contribute to raising the standards of teaching".Page 41, line 24, after "people" insert ", to safeguard and promote their welfare"Baroness Walmsley
1447: My Lords, I support the noble Baroness, Lady Thornton, on her amendment. I congratulate her on laying it before the House today and on the way in which she has introduced it. Clearly, in her speech she relied on an enormous amount of
1447Baroness Walmsley
1436Page 55, line 3, leave out "providing" and insert" who by virtue of any contractual obligation or by or under any enactment provides"moved Amendment No. 115:
1436Page 55, line 3, leave out "providing" and insert" who by virtue of any contractual obligation or by or under any enactment provides"Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister and beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I hope that the noble Lord will forgive me for intervening. Can he tell us where it says in statute that, to use his own words, they must go a hell of a lot further than that?Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I want briefly to welcome the amendment. I know that the noble Earl, Lord Listowel, would do so as well, because I have discussed it with him. He was very pleased when he saw it tabled on the Marshalled List by the Government. Children who are looked after often move around and find themselves at a disadvantage when trying to get into the best schools—as do children of service personnel, who have a similar problem. That matter may not be so well dealt with; perhaps we should come back to it at some other time. However, we warmly welcome this amendment.Baroness Walmsley
1452Time for Standards,"(1) Regulations may make provision as to the work, (to be known as "specified work") which may only be carried out at a school by a qualified teacher or other person possessing or seeking such qualifications as may be specified and as to that work which may be carried out to support or assist the carrying out of specified work by persons employed otherwise than as teachers at a school.""In section 133 of the 2002 Act (requirement upon teachers to be qualified), for subsection (1) there is substituted—"REVISION OF SECTION 133After Clause 112, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 129:
1452Time for Standards,"(1) Regulations may make provision as to the work, (to be known as "specified work") which may only be carried out at a school by a qualified teacher or other person possessing or seeking such qualifications as may be specified and as to that work which may be carried out to support or assist the carrying out of specified work by persons employed otherwise than as teachers at a school.""In section 133 of the 2002 Act (requirement upon teachers to be qualified), for subsection (1) there is substituted—"REVISION OF SECTION 133After Clause 112, insert the following new clause—Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister says that we are trying to limit the freedom of academies as to who they can employ: well, yes we are—in the interests of the children. It is because we believe a certain minimum standard of staff is necessary. The Minister is yet again relying on the funding agreements to achieve all kinds of things in relation to academies. Time alone will tell whether these are watertight or full of holes. I worry somewhat that those funding agreements are being relied on so heavily to achieve a large number of issues in relation to the provision of education by the academies. Neither the Minister nor I can tell for the moment, but I am sure that both of us will keep a careful eye on the matter.Baroness Walmsley
Every Child Matters1426: My Lords, Amendment No. 109, standing in my name, is grouped with Amendment No. 108. It is almost identical and has exactly the same purpose. In the context of supporting improvement, it is neither sensible nor helpful for the Secretary of State to set targets that do not bear reference to the inspection regime findings.Every Child Matters1426Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, I want to ask the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, a question. In subsection (2) of Amendment No. 111, does he mean "head teacher" rather than "headmaster"?Baroness Walmsley
1422: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply. It is one of the virtues of this House that we get the opportunity to reflect the views of outside organisations. The House of Commons does not get the same opportunity.1422Baroness Walmsley
"A range of input of practical experience should carry far more weight than any one organisation setting out to provide an implementation guide on its own. Moreover, this approach should greatly assist in ensuring smooth and constructive consultation at local school level, a better communication and understanding of changes to stalling structures, and a more positive reaction to change from staff".Modernising local government finance,1423"the new system is beginning with a leap of faith that all schools will be adequately funded"."We do not have responsibility for the funding system for schools but we are aware that settlements that appear reasonable overall, might not translate to appropriate provision at individual school level".Regulations may provide for the establishment by the Secretary of State and by the National Assembly for Wales of bodies to be known respectively as the School Funding Review Body for England and the School Funding Review Body for Wales with the functions of reviewing from time to time and of coordinating and advising local education authorities in England and in Wales, as the case may be, on matters relating to the equitable distribution of funds available for use in schools according to the ages, abilities, aptitudes and needs of pupils.""48A"After section 48 insert—Page 139, line 25, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 107:
"A range of input of practical experience should carry far more weight than any one organisation setting out to provide an implementation guide on its own. Moreover, this approach should greatly assist in ensuring smooth and constructive consultation at local school level, a better communication and understanding of changes to stalling structures, and a more positive reaction to change from staff".Modernising local government finance,1423"the new system is beginning with a leap of faith that all schools will be adequately funded"."We do not have responsibility for the funding system for schools but we are aware that settlements that appear reasonable overall, might not translate to appropriate provision at individual school level".Regulations may provide for the establishment by the Secretary of State and by the National Assembly for Wales of bodies to be known respectively as the School Funding Review Body for England and the School Funding Review Body for Wales with the functions of reviewing from time to time and of coordinating and advising local education authorities in England and in Wales, as the case may be, on matters relating to the equitable distribution of funds available for use in schools according to the ages, abilities, aptitudes and needs of pupils.""48A"After section 48 insert—Page 139, line 25, at end insert—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his response. He is correct to say that we tabled this amendment at the behest of the NUT. He has convinced me that there is little need for such a review body to pursue the issues suggested in the amendment. We have two sets of review bodies in relation to the funding. As regards local government, I suppose the Audit Commission is the appropriate review body. It seems to me that there is a strong case for the Audit Commission to look at school funding arrangements after a while to see how they are panning out. I am not sure that it is necessary to establish a separate quango. Therefore, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1418: My Lords, I thank the Minister for praising my efforts on Saturday afternoon but I am not totally satisfied, partly because of the weasel words. The local authority has to ask for approval. Asking for approval from the schools forum is different from the schools forum being merely advisory. In 2002, the issue was the determination of budget allocations. It was a question of whether the schools forum should be able not just to advise on, but determine, budget allocations. The decision taken by Parliament was that the LEA—which is, after all, the elected authority—would decide on its own budget allocations and it would take the advice of the schools forum on that occasion.1418Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1429Hansard"(c) take such measures as they consider appropriate to promote and encourage the constructive involvement of parents in the education of their children at schools, including in particular their membership of school governing bodies".""( ) In section 22 of the 2002 Act (training and support of governors), after paragraph (b) insert—Page 53, line 29, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 110:
1429Hansard"(c) take such measures as they consider appropriate to promote and encourage the constructive involvement of parents in the education of their children at schools, including in particular their membership of school governing bodies".""( ) In section 22 of the 2002 Act (training and support of governors), after paragraph (b) insert—Page 53, line 29, at end insert—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
14571456(4) "Relevant school" and "appropriate authority" shall have the same meaning as in section 112."(3) This information shall also be included each year in any school profile issued to parents.(2) All parents shall on registration of their child as a new pupil at any relevant school be given information as to where they may seek such guidance and advice including information about telephone help-lines, internet websites and the availability and contact details of local authority, school-based and voluntary support services.(1) It is the duty of the appropriate authority to ensure that any registered parent of a registered pupil attending a relevant school is able to seek guidance and advice in relation to the behavioural and emotional development of that pupil.
(4) "Relevant school" and "appropriate authority" shall have the same meaning as in section 112."(3) This information shall also be included each year in any school profile issued to parents.(2) All parents shall on registration of their child as a new pupil at any relevant school be given information as to where they may seek such guidance and advice including information about telephone help-lines, internet websites and the availability and contact details of local authority, school-based and voluntary support services.(1) It is the duty of the appropriate authority to ensure that any registered parent of a registered pupil attending a relevant school is able to seek guidance and advice in relation to the behavioural and emotional development of that pupil."SUPPORT AND ADVICE TO PARENTSAfter Clause 112, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 131A:
14571456(4) "Relevant school" and "appropriate authority" shall have the same meaning as in section 112."(3) This information shall also be included each year in any school profile issued to parents.(2) All parents shall on registration of their child as a new pupil at any relevant school be given information as to where they may seek such guidance and advice including information about telephone help-lines, internet websites and the availability and contact details of local authority, school-based and voluntary support services.(1) It is the duty of the appropriate authority to ensure that any registered parent of a registered pupil attending a relevant school is able to seek guidance and advice in relation to the behavioural and emotional development of that pupil.
(4) "Relevant school" and "appropriate authority" shall have the same meaning as in section 112."(3) This information shall also be included each year in any school profile issued to parents.(2) All parents shall on registration of their child as a new pupil at any relevant school be given information as to where they may seek such guidance and advice including information about telephone help-lines, internet websites and the availability and contact details of local authority, school-based and voluntary support services.(1) It is the duty of the appropriate authority to ensure that any registered parent of a registered pupil attending a relevant school is able to seek guidance and advice in relation to the behavioural and emotional development of that pupil."SUPPORT AND ADVICE TO PARENTSAfter Clause 112, insert the following new clause—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1458: My Lords, on this issue there is a meeting of minds between our Benches and the Minister. I also have support from Members on the other Benches. The amendment was a prompt to the Minister and I hope that he will keep the House informed of developments. There is a great deal of interest in the matter in this House. I am sure that the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, who has not been present for the past week or so, would have been
1458Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, we have had a very useful debate. There is a common understanding of shared objectives here. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, it might be helpful to provide the Minister with a hook on which he can hang his subsequent developments. I imagine we will probably not get another education Act next year. I certainly hope we do not get another immediately.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"in particular their membership of school governing bodies"."take such measures as they consider appropriate to promote and encourage the constructive involvement of parents in the education of their children at schools".: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for that. The Bill does present an opportunity for the Government perhaps to provide a statutory framework for doing something later. Our Amendment No. 110 suggests, in that respect, that the Government,
"in particular their membership of school governing bodies"."take such measures as they consider appropriate to promote and encourage the constructive involvement of parents in the education of their children at schools".Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"prepared to consider legislation to ensure that admissions protocols are in place everywhere, once the support infrastructure is in place"."In return, new admissions protocols for hard to place pupils—which are to be agreed by September this year for vulnerable pupil groups such as looked-after children—need not apply to excluded pupils until such time as schools have agreed arrangements with LEAs for strengthening the support available to schools to deal with disruptive pupils".1439"set out her ambition to see every secondary school being part of a partnership to manage pupil behaviour by September 2007".1438Page 60, line 40, after "education)" insert "after "governing body of a maintained school" insert "and the governing body of an Academy, a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the arts" and"moved Amendment No. 125:
"prepared to consider legislation to ensure that admissions protocols are in place everywhere, once the support infrastructure is in place"."In return, new admissions protocols for hard to place pupils—which are to be agreed by September this year for vulnerable pupil groups such as looked-after children—need not apply to excluded pupils until such time as schools have agreed arrangements with LEAs for strengthening the support available to schools to deal with disruptive pupils".1439"set out her ambition to see every secondary school being part of a partnership to manage pupil behaviour by September 2007".1438Page 60, line 40, after "education)" insert "after "governing body of a maintained school" insert "and the governing body of an Academy, a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the arts" and"Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for clarifying the position. It has been a great help. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"authorising local education authorities in prescribed cases to determine (or redetermine) budget shares, to such extent as may be prescribed, in accordance with arrangements approved by the authority's schools forum or the Secretary of State in accordance with the regulations"."enabling any limit or condition that would otherwise apply by virtue of subsection (4)(b)(i) or (ii) to be varied or excluded, on the application of the authority, by the authority's schools forum or the Secretary of State"."Regulations under subsection (3) may also make provision … enabling any expenditure falling outside any classes or descriptions of expenditure prescribed by virtue of subsection (4)(a) to be deducted from the authority's schools budget if the deduction of such expenditure is authorised, on the application of the authority, by the authority's schools forum or the Secretary of State"."to exercise any function that may be imposed on the schools forum by virtue of section 45A(4A) or 47(2)(g)".1416"to advise the relevant authority on such matters relating to the authority's schools budget as may be prescribed by regulations under section 45A(3) or by regulations under this subsection"."The purpose of the schools forum is"—0fficial Report,"We propose to extend the powers of schools forums in only two limited areas and to strengthen local accountability in so doing. The powers will apply to two sets of regulations, the first of which govern the composition of the LEA, schools and individual budgets and the second of which governs the determination of the individual school's budget shares".—[0fficial Report,"this is in no way a second bite of the cherry that was snatched away from us in the 2002 Bill"."to advise the relevant authority on such matters relating to the authority's schools budget as may be prescribed by regulations".Page 135, line 19, leave out sub-paragraph (7).moved Amendment No. 105A:
"authorising local education authorities in prescribed cases to determine (or redetermine) budget shares, to such extent as may be prescribed, in accordance with arrangements approved by the authority's schools forum or the Secretary of State in accordance with the regulations"."enabling any limit or condition that would otherwise apply by virtue of subsection (4)(b)(i) or (ii) to be varied or excluded, on the application of the authority, by the authority's schools forum or the Secretary of State"."Regulations under subsection (3) may also make provision … enabling any expenditure falling outside any classes or descriptions of expenditure prescribed by virtue of subsection (4)(a) to be deducted from the authority's schools budget if the deduction of such expenditure is authorised, on the application of the authority, by the authority's schools forum or the Secretary of State"."to exercise any function that may be imposed on the schools forum by virtue of section 45A(4A) or 47(2)(g)".1416"to advise the relevant authority on such matters relating to the authority's schools budget as may be prescribed by regulations under section 45A(3) or by regulations under this subsection"."The purpose of the schools forum is"—0fficial Report,"We propose to extend the powers of schools forums in only two limited areas and to strengthen local accountability in so doing. The powers will apply to two sets of regulations, the first of which govern the composition of the LEA, schools and individual budgets and the second of which governs the determination of the individual school's budget shares".—[0fficial Report,"this is in no way a second bite of the cherry that was snatched away from us in the 2002 Bill"."to advise the relevant authority on such matters relating to the authority's schools budget as may be prescribed by regulations".Page 135, line 19, leave out sub-paragraph (7).Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"There are significant concerns in the research literature about the extent to which 'quasi-markets' can contribute to the development of a two-tier system which results in an increase in stratification of students by social class. For example, some studies have suggested that middle class families tend to be more proactive in seeking what they consider to be the best school for their children, and they can use their 'cultural capital' to secure school places. Such concerns have already been expressed in relation to Academies, and addressing this issue is an important priority for the evaluation".1403: My Lords. I plead guilty to that one. We were trying to make a point in the amendment, and the Minister has clearly understood that point. I should also make clear that from these Benches on the substantive issue we welcome the fact that academies are bringing substantial new resources to inner-city schools. We recognise that in this policy the Government are attempting to cope with schools that have been long-term failures, many of which have over the course of many, many years been deprived of resources to cope with the needs that they must face."There are significant concerns in the research literature about the extent to which 'quasi-markets' can contribute to the development of a two-tier system which results in an increase in stratification of students by social class. For example, some studies have suggested that middle class families tend to be more proactive in seeking what they consider to be the best school for their children, and they can use their 'cultural capital' to secure school places. Such concerns have already been expressed in relation to Academies, and addressing this issue is an important priority for the evaluation".1403Baroness Sharp of Guildford
"Evidence of attrition in enthusiasm and innovation in new schools: new schools often begin with a strong sense of purpose, high levels of collegiality, dedication, motivation and staff morale. Over time, evidence from other countries suggests that this can wane. Linked to this, the wider evidence suggests that new schools have often seen teachers investing a great deal of their own time in the early stages of school development, but that this is not sustainable in the longer term".1399The Secretary of State shall within two years of the passing of this Act lay before both Houses of Parliament a report which contains a comparison and assessment of the statutory provisions in respect of the establishment, changes in terms of establishment and discontinuance of academies and maintained schools and, in the light of this report, the Secretary of State shall if necessary introduce legislation to amend these provisions in order that there may be equivalence in the statutory requirements in respect of the establishment, changes in the terms of establishment and discontinuance required of academies and maintained schools.""EQUIVALENCE OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACADEMIES AND MAINTAINED SCHOOLSAfter Clause 70, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 87:
"Evidence of attrition in enthusiasm and innovation in new schools: new schools often begin with a strong sense of purpose, high levels of collegiality, dedication, motivation and staff morale. Over time, evidence from other countries suggests that this can wane. Linked to this, the wider evidence suggests that new schools have often seen teachers investing a great deal of their own time in the early stages of school development, but that this is not sustainable in the longer term".1399The Secretary of State shall within two years of the passing of this Act lay before both Houses of Parliament a report which contains a comparison and assessment of the statutory provisions in respect of the establishment, changes in terms of establishment and discontinuance of academies and maintained schools and, in the light of this report, the Secretary of State shall if necessary introduce legislation to amend these provisions in order that there may be equivalence in the statutory requirements in respect of the establishment, changes in the terms of establishment and discontinuance required of academies and maintained schools.""EQUIVALENCE OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACADEMIES AND MAINTAINED SCHOOLSAfter Clause 70, insert the following new clause—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I rise briefly to endorse some of the sentiments expressed from the Opposition Benches. We on these Benches love rural primary schools. Like the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, we recognise the role that they play within the community. We recognise that many villages have lost their shop, the post office and a regular vicar, and schools play a vital part in pulling the community together.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his reply—I suppose I am grateful. It is clear that there is no meeting of minds on the issue.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I also thank the Minister for his response. We put down our Amendment No. 80 as a fall-back position, because we were not clear at that point precisely what proposals were coming forward. I am grateful to the Minister for his reassurance that the guidance will make it clear that these proposals should not be published just before public consultation without making due allowance for an extension to the length of discussions. There should he a reasonable length of time for public consultation on these amendments.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1352WA 74.Official Report,"Local authorities will need to factor the new arrangements into their planning cycle when considering any reorganisation of secondary education in the area".—[WA 74.Official Report,1351Sections 63 to 65 do not apply in England to proposals about three or more schools in the same local education authority area when published simultaneously by the local education authority and the governing bodies of aided and foundation schools or the promoters of new aided or foundation schools.""ARRANGEMENTS FOR SCHOOL ORGANISATION PROPOSALS INVOLVING THREE OR MORE SCHOOLSBefore Clause 63, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 73:
1352WA 74.Official Report,"Local authorities will need to factor the new arrangements into their planning cycle when considering any reorganisation of secondary education in the area".—[WA 74.Official Report,1351Sections 63 to 65 do not apply in England to proposals about three or more schools in the same local education authority area when published simultaneously by the local education authority and the governing bodies of aided and foundation schools or the promoters of new aided or foundation schools.""ARRANGEMENTS FOR SCHOOL ORGANISATION PROPOSALS INVOLVING THREE OR MORE SCHOOLSBefore Clause 63, insert the following new clause—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that very detailed response. I am glad that, in principle, a lot of what has been said on the topic both in Grand Committee and today has been accepted by the Government. I wait with interest for the letter she says she will write to me, and I am glad that consultation is proceeding with Save the Children, which has of course been responsible for research upon which we have based the amendments. In the circumstances—I know that time is a problem at the moment—I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Turner of Camden
1345"It shall be the duty of all persons and bodies exercising functions under this [clause] … to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded",1344"an excluded pupil … should normally be allowed to attend the hearing and to speak on his or her own behalf, if he or she wishes to do so and the parent agrees"."they should normally allow the excluded pupil to attend the meeting and speak, if the parent requests this".(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and
(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and(5B) Regulations shall make provision for compliance with the duty under subsection (5A) and in particular to ensure that pupils that are proposed to be excluded or have been excluded under the provisions of this section—
(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and
(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and
(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and"(5A) It shall he the duty of all persons and bodies exercising functions under this section—
(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and
(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and(2) After subsection (5) there is inserted—(1) Section 52 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) (exclusion of pupils) is amended as follows.
(2) After subsection (5) there is inserted—(1) Section 52 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) (exclusion of pupils) is amended as follows."Exclusion of children: duties in relation to pupilsAfter Clause 45, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 55:
1345"It shall be the duty of all persons and bodies exercising functions under this [clause] … to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded",1344"an excluded pupil … should normally be allowed to attend the hearing and to speak on his or her own behalf, if he or she wishes to do so and the parent agrees"."they should normally allow the excluded pupil to attend the meeting and speak, if the parent requests this".(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and
(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and(5B) Regulations shall make provision for compliance with the duty under subsection (5A) and in particular to ensure that pupils that are proposed to be excluded or have been excluded under the provisions of this section—
(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and
(b) receive all information that might be relevant to such representations.""(a) have a proper opportunity to make representations in relation to their exclusion or proposed exclusion, and(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and
(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and"(5A) It shall he the duty of all persons and bodies exercising functions under this section—
(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and
(b) to have regard in particular to the child's educational achievement.(a) to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child that is proposed to be excluded, and(2) After subsection (5) there is inserted—(1) Section 52 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) (exclusion of pupils) is amended as follows.
(2) After subsection (5) there is inserted—(1) Section 52 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) (exclusion of pupils) is amended as follows."Exclusion of children: duties in relation to pupilsAfter Clause 45, insert the following new clause—Baroness Turner of Camden
1346"Too often LEAs [local education authorities] are intimidated by lawyers, barrack room or real, or by self-appointed pressure groups, waving the civil libertarian flag and threatening damages or other mayhem. This spreads to independent appeal panels which are still reinstating on flimsy groups".: My Lords, I support my noble friend Lady Turner of Camden. The common picture of the excluded pupil is one of a young adolescent out of control, very difficult to educate, abusive, uncooperative, and who has a disregard for authority. Such children are demonised by society and, with their parents, are frequently criticised by the leaders of society. For example, on Tuesday BBC News published a news item about a speech from David Hart of the National Association of Head Teachers, criticising the extreme use of procedures at appeal panels which he said put heads "in the dock". He went on to criticise appeal panels for reinstating pupils on "flimsy grounds" which damaged the "law-abiding majority" of children. He said:
1346"Too often LEAs [local education authorities] are intimidated by lawyers, barrack room or real, or by self-appointed pressure groups, waving the civil libertarian flag and threatening damages or other mayhem. This spreads to independent appeal panels which are still reinstating on flimsy groups".Baroness David
1359"( ) The first publication of the regulations and guidance given under sub-paragraphs (4) and (6) must be approved by Parliament."Page 100, line 15, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 78:
1359"( ) The first publication of the regulations and guidance given under sub-paragraphs (4) and (6) must be approved by Parliament."Page 100, line 15, at end insert—Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that I spoke in Committee about the necessity of trusting people to get on with the job at local level. That also involves trusting them sometimes if they do not always get it right. Sometimes Secretaries of State do not always get it right. I am afraid that I should like to test the will of the House.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1361Hansard.: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that very detailed reply. I am not sure about it being succinct arid clear, and I shall have to read it in 1361Hansard.Baroness Morris of Bolton
Leave out Clause 66.moved Amendment No. 81:
Leave out Clause 66.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for her thoughtful reply and for the contributions of other noble Lords in an excellent short debate. I have raised this issue in an honest attempt to highlight and draw attention to the plight of many rural schools. We feel that we have to go slightly further than the presumption against closure. We have no illusions: this is a complex issue involving many factors and outside forces. For that reason, it perhaps cannot be addressed in a single amendment and, possibly, not in this amendment. We need to reflect on this further. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
13761375(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State or Assembly.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area in England or Wales, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of a majority of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State or Assembly.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area in England or Wales, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of a majority of parents of registered children of that school."CLOSURE OF RURAL PRIMARY SCHOOLSAfter Clause 69. insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 85:
13761375(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State or Assembly.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area in England or Wales, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of a majority of parents of registered children of that school.
(5) No further ballot may be held within 7 years of the first ballot being held."(4) Any ballot shall be invalid unless fifty per cent of the registered parents participate.(3) The results of the ballot shall be communicated by the appropriate authority to each registered parent, governing body and the Secretary of State or Assembly.(2) The appropriate authority shall organise, fund and conduct a ballot to determine the views of registered parents, and shall inform the parents of their right to participate.(1) No primary school located in a rural area in England or Wales, as defined by the Office of National Statistics under its Rural and Urban Area Classification 2004, may be closed without the approval of a majority of parents of registered children of that school."CLOSURE OF RURAL PRIMARY SCHOOLSAfter Clause 69. insert the following new clause—Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I am overjoyed that the Government have taken on board our suggestion in relation to Amendment No. 96. Indeed, I am delighted to see that the DfES has declared a fraction of independence from the all-encompassing and ever-seeing Treasury.Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for taking on board our concerns and putting the provision in the Bill. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1442The Secretary of State or the Assembly may by regulations require a pupil referral unit maintained by a local education authority to collect and publish data on levels of education achievement and attainment or any other information as may be prescribed.""PUPIL REFERRAL UNITS: SUPPLY AND PUBLICATION OF INFORMATIONAfter Clause 111, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 127:
1442The Secretary of State or the Assembly may by regulations require a pupil referral unit maintained by a local education authority to collect and publish data on levels of education achievement and attainment or any other information as may be prescribed.""PUPIL REFERRAL UNITS: SUPPLY AND PUBLICATION OF INFORMATIONAfter Clause 111, insert the following new clause—Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his thoughtful reply. Yes, it is complex, but that does not mean that we should not still try to capture the information. I thank him for saying that he will take the issue away and think about it. I believe very strongly that just because these children are excluded does not mean that they should be forgotten. We should have just as much ambition for them as we do for all other children. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Morris of Bolton
1340: My Lords, is the House aware that BBC Parliament started broadband live broadcasting of the House of Lords last night? Does the
1340Baroness Buscombe
: My Lords, can the Minister tell me why more than half the Standards Board's time is spent on investigating parish councils? Does he not agree that it is hard enough to get people to serve on parish councils now and that it would be better to take some of the pressure off them? How long does he think it will be before the Standards Board can investigate the failure to implement the hedges policy?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that councillors are being suspended from office after investigation by the Standards Board for misdemeanours no greater than the zealous representation of constituents' interests or minor lapses of judgment? Some of those suspensions are taking place for up to a year. Does he agree that an unaccountable quango suspending from office the democratically elected representative of a community is a gross interference with democratic processes and should take place only when the most serious breaches of conduct occur?Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his positive reply. But how does he suggest that local councillors who feel aggrieved in this way can proceed further? At the moment, the only option open to them is the High Court. I am sure that the Minister will accept that that is very expensive and is an impractical option for most local councillors.Baroness Scott of Needham Market
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that, as newspapers give less and less space to politics, it is essential that other media, particularly radio, give good coverage to parliamentary proceedings and news?Baroness Rendell of Babergh
1333: My Lords, as an aspect of internal economic reform, will the Government support
1333Baroness Greengross
(Baroness Amos).: My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos).The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.)1342: My Lords, I beg to move the third Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)1342Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the fourth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the fifth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I think that this is the last one. I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
[Further provisions about restriction notices and orders]:Division called.: My Lords, the Question is that Amendment No. 8 shall be agreed to. As many as are of that opinion will say, "Content". To the contrary, "Not-Content". I think that the "Contents" have it. Clear the Bar.[Further provisions about restriction notices and orders]:Division called.The Deputy Speaker (Lord Lyell)
66"The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on or after 1st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle"."The Committee's analysis of the evidence we have received, together with the Department of Transport's own data, leads us to suggest an end-date of the end of 2017. We conclude that this, together with a limited exemption system which would itself expire in 2025, would be an appropriate compromise between the needs of disabled people and the industry's current replacement programme".65: My Lords, this has been an interesting debate. I thank the noble Lord, Lord Addington, for observing that the Government have 15 years to get this right. I am delighted he thinks a Labour government will still be in power in 2020.66"The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on or after 1st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle"."The Committee's analysis of the evidence we have received, together with the Department of Transport's own data, leads us to suggest an end-date of the end of 2017. We conclude that this, together with a limited exemption system which would itself expire in 2025, would be an appropriate compromise between the needs of disabled people and the industry's current replacement programme".65Lord Carter
"every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle","The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on and after 1st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle".: My Lords, I would like to ask a few questions while information is being obtained. Amendment No. 6 states:
"every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle","The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on and after 1st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle".Lord Carter
: My Lords, I am extremely grateful to the Government for tabling this amendment. My noble friend will remember that at an earlier stage of the Bill I said that I was keeping score of the number of recommendations of the Joint Committee that were turned down in the government response but which were later introduced into the Bill. This is another one.Lord Carter
Hansard: My Lords, we covered the subject at length at a previous stage so there is no need to go into it in great detail. To pick up on a word we used on earlier amendments, we are debating the "robustness" of the prescription procedure—whether there will be sufficient consultation. We now have Amendment No. 25, which means that the prescription must be done by affirmative order.HansardLord Carter
100: My Lords, although effectively the regulations deal with what are really social security problems, we have a change of batting. The noble Baroness, Lady Hollis of Heigham, retired on 100 not out. There was rather a bad referee's decision earlier, after the Division, but other than that she did admirably throughout a very long session. That change of batting reflects the extent to which, since 1997, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Treasury have taken over many aspects of social security under the Chancellor's obsession with tax credits of various kinds.100Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I shall follow the noble Lord's cricketing analogy and am happy to come on to bowl from the other Opposition end. again unchanged from the previous match.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I have to start by apologising that an Answer I gave to the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, at the beginning of the month gave the wrong website. I have asked him to apologise to his researcher, who had particular difficulty finding it, as did the noble Lord. I hope that it has now been corrected and I apologise to the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, and to his researcher.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, as that point has been raised, it is a totally unacceptable way to answer a parliamentary Question, whether or not the website is accessible. That is being taken up and I hope that we will get a proper Written Answer on that point, which is why I made it.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
103102: My Lords, I shall look at that Question with due care when it comes to me. I understand the point. When matters are on the website, it is very convenient to hope that that is an acceptable way of answering. My position is that if it is not acceptable, we must print it out. Most people receiving Answers that refer to websites do not have the same difficulty as the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott.103102Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, apparently even the Revenue admits that 455,000 families were overpaid in 2003–04, to the tune of £93 million. That is not a very efficient way of going on. Is that figure correct? What is the overall scale of the extent to which the Revenue has overpaid?Lord Higgins
104: My Lords, I am not in a position to deny that figure by searching through my papers at the moment, so I will not deny it. However, we are talking about 10 per cent of claims involving overpayments. That is not a very surprising figure if you take account of the fact that the assessment is made only once a year, and that quite a number of the things that I detailed are capable of change in the course of the year. It clearly is undesirable to have that level of overpayment, but it is the price that we pay for putting less of a burden on claimants.104Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I accept the difficulty of collecting statistics as regards the wearing of seat belts by people involved in fatal or serious accidents. Would it not be worth going to a little trouble and expense to try to get such information because it would underpin significantly the Government's efforts to encourage the wearing of seat belts? If people know the likelihood of surviving an accident with a seat belt compared to the consequences without one, surely that would help in furthering the Government's policy.Lord Dubs
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].: My Lords, I beg to move.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord McIntosh of Haringey
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].: My Lords, 1 beg to move.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord McIntosh of Haringey
53Hansard,: My Lords, I thank the opposition Benches for joining this short debate and, in effect, supporting me. Obviously I am not going to press this amendment to further debate or to a Division. I am exceedingly grateful to the Minister for her warmhearted and fully fleshed-out response. It is exactly what I was hoping for. We now have a statement in 53Hansard,Lord Rix
51Treat me right!"( ) In determining their duty under subsection (1), public authorities which provide health care services shall pay particular attention to the need to eliminate discrimination against persons with a learning disability."Page 8, line 22, at end insert—
"( ) In determining their duty under subsection (1), public authorities which provide health care services shall pay particular attention to the need to eliminate discrimination against persons with a learning disability."moved Amendment No. 4:
51Treat me right!"( ) In determining their duty under subsection (1), public authorities which provide health care services shall pay particular attention to the need to eliminate discrimination against persons with a learning disability."Page 8, line 22, at end insert—
"( ) In determining their duty under subsection (1), public authorities which provide health care services shall pay particular attention to the need to eliminate discrimination against persons with a learning disability."Lord Rix
4: My Lords, the noble Baroness is probably offering fairly short odds. Taxies provide seat belts. As the distance from the passenger seat to the back
4Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, we publish estimates and we are aware through surveys of the compliance with regard to seat-belt usage. So we can say with some degree of confidence that 94 per cent of drivers and front-seat passengers wear seat belts; 93 per cent of children are restrained when sitting in the back; but that only 65 per cent of adults sitting in the back wear them.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I do not have that range of figures. But I think that my noble friend has lighted upon another important aspect of compliance, which is that it is not mandatory for coaches at present. Nevertheless, the use of seat belts in coaches helps to reduce accidents. We are eager to bring that to the attention of all people who use coaches.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, as I indicated in my earlier Answer, there are some difficulties about acquiring such figures as the police are not necessarily the first on the scene of an accident, so there is no accurate evidence. The police do not record whether seat belts had been worn and one cannot always tell. My noble friend is absolutely right that the wearing of seat belts saves lives. As many as 15 front-seat occupants were killed last year by unbelted rear-seat passengers colliding with them. It is important that rear seat belts are worn, but, as I have mentioned to my noble friend, there is a difficulty about statistics.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is certainly the case. People now survive accidents in which they would have died had they not been wearing seat belts. We have police estimates of seat-belt usage and we know that there is a very high degree of compliance by front-seat passengers, but the problem is that only about two—thirds of rear-seat passengers wear seat belts, with the resulting consequence of injury and death.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the Government spend £1.5 million a year on publicising campaigns on the wearing of seat belts. Senior police officers are only too well aware of the Government's drive towards improving seat-belt usage. I do not believe that the Government send out mixed messages, but the House will recognise that compliance with certain aspects of motoring law—drink driving is the most obvious example—is bound to be taken much more seriously by the police than is seat-belt compliance. Nevertheless, quite clearly the Government want to encourage the use of seat belts as much as possible.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, New Hampshire is an atypical American state in so many respects that I am not at all fazed by the fact that it is exceptional in that respect. We know from our own evidence that seat-belt wearing reduces injuries in accidents. For a number of years it has been the law of the land and we have seen the effect in the consequences of road accidents. That is the basis on which we seek as much compliance as possible.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, road collision reports produced by the police do not record seat-belt use. However, we estimate that some 4,900 people, about 28 per cent of those killed or seriously injured in cars or vans in Great Britain during 2003, were not wearing seat belts. Those estimates are calculated using observed seat-belt wearing rates and, therefore, are not available for larger vehicles.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, before business begins, may I take the opportunity to inform the House that I am to undertake a ministerial visit to Bristol on Tuesday 1 March? Accordingly, I trust that the House will grant me leave of absence.The Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, if the Minister does not agree to this amendment, can she explain to us what is meant to happen? For example, she wants Lord Justice Bloggs to chair an inquiry. She asks the Lord Chief Justice, who says, "No, I can't spare Lord Justice Bloggs, and anyhow this is a wholly unsuitable matter for a judge to hear". She is unconvinced by the Lord Chief Justice, so she goes off to Lord Justice Bloggs and says, "I want you to chair this inquiry. I should point out that your boss, the Lord Chief Justice, doesn't want you to do it, but I want you to". How on earth is the poor man meant to make up his mind? Is he meant to kick the Government or the Lord Chief Justice in the teeth?Viscount Bledisloe
: My Lords, we tabled a similar amendment on Report, to which I spoke at great length. That amendment is now amalgamated with that of the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, with whose speech I wholly agree.Lord Kingsland
Page 5, line 32, leave out "consult" and insert "secure the agreement of"moved Amendment No. 4:
Page 5, line 32, leave out "consult" and insert "secure the agreement of"Lord Kingsland
15(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),
(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),(4) In this section "ministerial misconduct" means misconduct by—
(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),
(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),(3) Section 6(1) does not apply in any case in which the Minister has moved a motion in pursuance of this section.(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and
(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and(2) The Minster may, if he sees fit, move a motion before the relevant Parliament or Assembly for a resolution approving—
(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and
(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and
(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and(1) This section applies where—
(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and
(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and"INQUIRIES WHERE MINISTERIAL MISCONDUCT IN ISSUEAfter Clause 6, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. l:
15(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),
(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),(4) In this section "ministerial misconduct" means misconduct by—
(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),
(d) the First Minister, deputy First Minister or any other Northern Ireland Minister."(c) the Assembly First Secretary elected by the National Assembly for Wales, or any Assembly Secretary appointed by him, or(b) a member of the Scottish Executive,(a) the holder of a Ministerial office specified in Schedule 1 to the Ministerial and other Salaries Act 1975 (c. 27),(3) Section 6(1) does not apply in any case in which the Minister has moved a motion in pursuance of this section.(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and
(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and(2) The Minster may, if he sees fit, move a motion before the relevant Parliament or Assembly for a resolution approving—
(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and
(b) his proposals as to the inquiry's terms of reference and the identity of the chairman;
but an inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution.(a) his proposal to cause the inquiry to be held, and(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and
(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and(1) This section applies where—
(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and
(b) it appears from the proposed terms of reference that the events in question relate wholly or primarily to alleged ministerial misconduct.14(a) a Minister proposes to cause an inquiry to be held, and"INQUIRIES WHERE MINISTERIAL MISCONDUCT IN ISSUEAfter Clause 6, insert the following new clause—Lord Kingsland
20: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her reply.20Lord Kingsland
47Page 12, line 9, leave out "Minister, or the chairman if subsection (2) applies," and insert "chairman"moved Amendment No. 13:
47Page 12, line 9, leave out "Minister, or the chairman if subsection (2) applies," and insert "chairman"Lord Kingsland
"as the person considers to be necessary in the public interest, having regard in particular to the matters mentioned in subsection (5)".48: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness, as always, for her thoughtful reply.
"as the person considers to be necessary in the public interest, having regard in particular to the matters mentioned in subsection (5)".48Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for her response. The Minister has said that she has striven to meet my requirements. I remember that once, in the late 1980s, I had the privilege of a meeting with the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher, who said in the course of our discussion that "trying is not enough". The Minister may have striven but striving is not enough. Nevertheless, I accept that she has given this her full attention and, even though, in my submission, the Minister has not achieved the necessary security in the Bill, I do not intend to press the amendment this afternoon, for the reasons that I have given. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
"Before exercising his power under subsection (1)(b), the Minister must consult the chairman.(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or
(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or"For the purposes of this Act an inquiry comes to an end—
(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or
(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or32Page 6, line 32, leave out "consult" and insert "secure the agreement of"moved Amendment No. 5:
"Before exercising his power under subsection (1)(b), the Minister must consult the chairman.(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or
(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or"For the purposes of this Act an inquiry comes to an end—
(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or
(b) on any earlier date specified in a notice given to the chairman by the Minister".(a) on the date, after the delivery of the report of the inquiry, on which the chairman notifies the Minister that the inquiry has fulfilled its terms of reference, or32Page 6, line 32, leave out "consult" and insert "secure the agreement of"Lord Kingsland
Evidence and procedure: My Lords, I am most grateful once again for the Minister's response, although I am naturally disappointed that she is unable to meet the terms of my amendment or the suggested alternative. I am reassured by her undertaking to tighten up the wording in the Explanatory Notes so that they express the limited intention that she has stated to your Lordships' House that the clause would have. In those circumstances, I am happy to beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Evidence and procedureLord Kingsland
: My Lords, briefly, we on the Front Bench of the noble Viscount, Lord Goschen, entirely support his amendment. It is an extremely constructive contribution to the discussion of the Bill. It reflects foursquare one of the key objectives that the Government are trying to achieve. I hope that the Minister will receive it generously.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, the issue of restriction notices was dealt with in terms at Report. Indeed, so exercised were we on these Benches by the inclusion of restriction notices in the Bill that we asked the House to vote on the matter. The Government won the day. I regret that I was unaware of the views of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Saville of Newdigate, on these notices at the time of that debate. If I had been, I am sure that I would have cited them in support of my amendments, which were rather more radical than those tabled by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend that the wearing of seat belts is not recorded as it should be. Can he advise the House, and particularly me, of the number of accidents resulting in injury and death that occur involving public services' vehicles, such as buses, taxis, ambulances, fire engines and more importantly police cars?Lord Davies of Coity
: My Lords, I shall say a few words in support of the noble Lord, Lord Pearson of Rannoch. I also join him in thanking and congratulating all those noble Lords on the Government side, and indeed those on the Opposition side, who took part in interesting Committee and Report stages.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
24: My Lords, if one is to call a spade a spade, it is arrogant for the Government to say that they will be the sole arbiter of when a judge should be appointed and which judge it should be. The point has already been made that, under the concordat, deployment is a function of the judiciary. It is important that the Lord Chief Justice is in a position to estimate, having regard to the nature of the inquiry, to what extent—since there is likely to be a dissatisfied
24Lord Ackner
46: My Lords, I would like to stress how important the distinction is between the amendment that I have put before the House and the one that was previously voted on. The suggestion that this issue has already been decided by implication is wrong. We are concerned with the chairman's ability to maintain public confidence in the inquiry over which he and his panel are presiding.46Lord Ackner
42Times"Sadly, they remain and accordingly I have decided to make them public"."there are situations in which it is reasonable to set up an inquiry on a private or partly private basis. Should a Minister decide to take this course, then it will be for that Minister to seek to explain (if the decision proves controversial) why this is preferable to a fully public inquiry. Those invited to sit on the panel will know the terms on which the Minister proposes to set up for the inquiry and if dissatisfied with those terms, will have the opportunity to decline appointment. However, Clause 19 is not concerned (or solely concerned) with the stage of setting up the inquiry, but as drafted enables the Minister to impose restrictions at any stage during the life of the inquiry. Thus the Minister could establish an inquiry on an apparently public basis, and then alter that basis"."the difficulty is that the imposition of restrictions by a Minister is likely in many instances to have a seriously damaging effect on public confidence in the independence of the inquiry, which in turn could lead to interested parties or witnesses withholding their co-operation, thereby distorting the evidence or submissions available to the inquiry and thus both diminishing the ability of the inquiry to reach unbiased conclusions and damaging the credibility of those conclusions".""the actual work of the inquiry' or compromising the independence and impartiality of its report"."it would result in the panel becoming formally associated with the Minister's decisions"."restriction notices should be subject to the consent of the chairman or panel"."cases can arise in which the quantity of information which requires restriction of public access is so great that the PII [public immunity interest] approach could not be adopted".41"a very real issue and it is for this specific reason that the provisions in the Bill require the Minister to weigh the impact on public concern that a notice would have against the risk of harm or damage, or reduced effectiveness"."The purpose of the restriction notice procedure set out in clauses 17 and 18 [now Clauses 19 and 20] … is to provide a menu of options, starting from fully public which is recognised as the aim to be achieved where possible, and allowing suitable degrees of privacy to be specified for any part of the proceedings"."If there are likely to be problems involving disclosure, the answer is to appoint Inquiry members who have sufficient experience and ability to deal with those problems"."I thought it would be of assistance to you to know that I support the views that he [the noble and learned Lord, Lord Saville] expresses. As I understand it those views do not mean that, in appropriate circumstances, the Inquiry would not take steps to ensure the protection of the public interest.40"it is for the inquiry panel itself to determine these matters, subject of course to the right of those concerned to challenge in court any ruling","would not be prepared to be appointed as a member of an inquiry that was subject to a provision of this kind"."I take the view that this provision makes a very serious inroad into the independence of any Inquiry; and is likely to damage or destroy public confidence in the inquiry and its findings, especially in any case where the conduct of the authorities may be in question"."of the Bill, giving the relevant Minister the power to impose restrictions at any time before the end of the inquiry on attendance at the inquiry, or on the disclosure or publication of any evidence or documents given to the inquiry"."There is … one matter that seems to me to be of such importance that I should write to you. This concerns the present provisions of Clause 17"—TimesAckner speaks you see Lord Saville of Newdigate"."On your imaginary forces work. Think—when Lord39Page 9, line 2, leave out "at any time before the end of the inquiry" and insert "in the instrument appointing the Chairman"moved Amendment No. 8:
42Times"Sadly, they remain and accordingly I have decided to make them public"."there are situations in which it is reasonable to set up an inquiry on a private or partly private basis. Should a Minister decide to take this course, then it will be for that Minister to seek to explain (if the decision proves controversial) why this is preferable to a fully public inquiry. Those invited to sit on the panel will know the terms on which the Minister proposes to set up for the inquiry and if dissatisfied with those terms, will have the opportunity to decline appointment. However, Clause 19 is not concerned (or solely concerned) with the stage of setting up the inquiry, but as drafted enables the Minister to impose restrictions at any stage during the life of the inquiry. Thus the Minister could establish an inquiry on an apparently public basis, and then alter that basis"."the difficulty is that the imposition of restrictions by a Minister is likely in many instances to have a seriously damaging effect on public confidence in the independence of the inquiry, which in turn could lead to interested parties or witnesses withholding their co-operation, thereby distorting the evidence or submissions available to the inquiry and thus both diminishing the ability of the inquiry to reach unbiased conclusions and damaging the credibility of those conclusions".""the actual work of the inquiry' or compromising the independence and impartiality of its report"."it would result in the panel becoming formally associated with the Minister's decisions"."restriction notices should be subject to the consent of the chairman or panel"."cases can arise in which the quantity of information which requires restriction of public access is so great that the PII [public immunity interest] approach could not be adopted".41"a very real issue and it is for this specific reason that the provisions in the Bill require the Minister to weigh the impact on public concern that a notice would have against the risk of harm or damage, or reduced effectiveness"."The purpose of the restriction notice procedure set out in clauses 17 and 18 [now Clauses 19 and 20] … is to provide a menu of options, starting from fully public which is recognised as the aim to be achieved where possible, and allowing suitable degrees of privacy to be specified for any part of the proceedings"."If there are likely to be problems involving disclosure, the answer is to appoint Inquiry members who have sufficient experience and ability to deal with those problems"."I thought it would be of assistance to you to know that I support the views that he [the noble and learned Lord, Lord Saville] expresses. As I understand it those views do not mean that, in appropriate circumstances, the Inquiry would not take steps to ensure the protection of the public interest.40"it is for the inquiry panel itself to determine these matters, subject of course to the right of those concerned to challenge in court any ruling","would not be prepared to be appointed as a member of an inquiry that was subject to a provision of this kind"."I take the view that this provision makes a very serious inroad into the independence of any Inquiry; and is likely to damage or destroy public confidence in the inquiry and its findings, especially in any case where the conduct of the authorities may be in question"."of the Bill, giving the relevant Minister the power to impose restrictions at any time before the end of the inquiry on attendance at the inquiry, or on the disclosure or publication of any evidence or documents given to the inquiry"."There is … one matter that seems to me to be of such importance that I should write to you. This concerns the present provisions of Clause 17"—TimesAckner speaks you see Lord Saville of Newdigate"."On your imaginary forces work. Think—when Lord39Page 9, line 2, leave out "at any time before the end of the inquiry" and insert "in the instrument appointing the Chairman"Lord Ackner
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for her correction. Even with the Minister's limited ability, my noble and learned friend Lord Saville was able to say that if the Minister had used those powers in relation to his inquiry, public confidence, which he and his panel had managed to maintain, would have drained away. There is the assessment by a chairman now of vast experience as to what would happen if the Minister intervened as she Minister would wish to do.Lord Ackner
: My Lords, I speak briefly to emphasise the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale. I hope that the Minister will be able to tell us that such things are already covered. If any group is excluded because it is deemed to be slightly too difficult or inconvenient, that will reveal a hole in the Bill that I had not thought to be there. We need an assurance from the Minister that the amendment is not needed.Lord Addington
64: My Lords, we have gone through a long process on transport exemptions. It started when we were hacking through the 1995 Bill. Although it took a brave step forward, the Bill failed because long lead-in times meant inactivity, which meant nothing, which meant concessions could then be got from the government in the form of a negative resolution.64Lord Addington
: My Lords, the simple reason is that I had thought we had decided this. Experience tells me that the organisations have accepted a deal from outside. I thought the basis on which they bought the deal was wrong.Lord Addington
: My Lords, we shall forgive the little dispute when we were so close to agreeing and when we had to settle the matter with a Division. On this point, we thank the Government.Lord Addington
: My Lords, is the noble Lord aware that there is widespread scepticism about CoR WM, evidenced in the Select Committee report, which will not be remedied by the situation described by the noble Lord, Lord Jenkin? Will the noble Lord undertake to publish the results of that inquiry in an effort to re-establish any degree of public confidence that may remain in the activity to which, as the noble Lord, Lord Jenkin, said, the Government have committed a great deal of their own political capital?Lord Tombs
37: My Lords, I will add one or two syllables of advice, responding sympathetically to the point raised by my noble friend Lord Goschen. I suggest that the management of the inquiry may well be more economical if some time is taken before it gets stuck into its work.37Lord Howe of Aberavon
34: My Lords, I would like to express my appreciation not just for the kind words that the noble Baroness has just uttered hut, more
34Lord Howe of Aberavon
Page 8, line 12, at end insert ", and must within one month of the setting-up date publish an estimate of the likely cost of the inquiry"moved Amendment No. 7:
Page 8, line 12, at end insert ", and must within one month of the setting-up date publish an estimate of the likely cost of the inquiry"Viscount Goschen
Restrictions on public access etc: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that response. There now seems to be very little between us. I am not wedded to the fact that the point has to be on the face of the Bill. I want to ensure that such an estimate is made. The Minister has made her view clear that an estimate should be made and that she will consult on the best way to do that. On the timetable, I am not wedded to four weeks or six weeks, but to an appropriate period. I am happy to accept the Minister's undertaking that she will consult on the issue of an estimate.Restrictions on public access etcViscount Goschen
"inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution".16: My Lords, the noble Lords, Lord Kingsland and Lord Goodhart, have at various stages of the Bill proposed—up to now, separately—different amendments to try and involve the two Houses of Parliament in some way in the setting up of an inquiry.
"inquiry is not invalidated by the absence of such a resolution".16Lord Borrie
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Janner of Braunstone
2: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that, if we are to deal with deaths on
2Lord Janner of Braunstone
67: My Lords, I have been as critical of the Government throughout the progress of the Bill as anyone, and certainly have been critical of the Bill. I have also been very suspicious of the railway industry. On Report, the noble Lord, Lord Davies, disagreed with me about the industry, indicating in no uncertain manner that I was too cynical about and critical of it. He defended it.67Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, I too welcome this group of amendments. The noble Baroness, Lady Wilkins, has just mentioned independent living. As the House may know, I have been pressing very strongly for this new clause on independent living. These amendments go a long way towards helping independent living for disabled people. I particularly welcome the amendments, especially Amendment No. 16, because it would have been incredible that any landlord could unreasonably refuse alterations to premises for a disabled person. There is no argument for that. By any stretch of the imagination that would be quite incredible. These amendments correct that gross injustice. I regard them as some of the most important parts of the Bill. I congratulate the Government.Lord Ashley of Stoke
83: My Lords, although many things have changed, the public's perception of cancer has not. That is why it is so important to make these advances spelled out in the amendments. The word
83Lord Ashley of Stoke
25: My Lords, I agree that a person who has been appointed as one of Her Majesty's judges—whether in England and Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland—will be able to have a view about whether it is appropriate for him or her to take an individual inquiry. But the question of judicial resources is not a matter for an individual judge. He or she is deployed by the head of the judiciary in his or her jurisdiction to take trials as and when required. The individual judge has no responsibility, as I understand it, for making sure that the resources available to the judiciary are adequate to discharge the responsibilities the judiciary has in particular cases. The head of the judiciary in the jurisdiction has that responsibility.25Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, with great respect, before the Minister sits down, what is at issue here is the resources not of the legal profession but of the courts, which are part of the judicial arm of Government. The Lord Chief Justice for England and Wales, not a Minister of the Crown, has been charged with the responsibility for that. Surely it cannot be right for the Minister in the executive government to be able to overrule the decision of the Lord Chief Justice upon whether a person can be spared from his judicial strength in order to perform a particular act. Of course, there are always possibilities for negotiation. For example, the consent of the Lord Chief Justice might be secured by the executive asking that vital question.Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords—Lord Barnett
: My Lords, does the Minister think that solving the waste problem and new build should be concurrent or consecutive activities?Earl Attlee
: My Lords, I entirely agree with the noble Viscount, Lord Bledisloe. He is absolutely right. I shall add one thing: in the Arbitration Act 1979, it is provided that a judge can act as a judge-arbitrator, with different systems of appeals as a consequence, but before accepting that appointment, the Lord Chief Justice has to consider whether the ordinary course of business will be held up by not having that judge. That is peculiarly a matter for the judiciary, which is an independent estate of the realm. I shall not use the word "arrogant", which was used by my noble and learned friend, but, accepting, as I thought they did, the independence of the judiciary as a separate estate of the realm, I cannot understand how the Government can resist this amendment.Lord Donaldson of Lymington
36: My Lords, I appear on behalf of the as yet unformed trade union representing chairmen. I have, post-retirement from the Bench,
36Lord Donaldson of Lymington
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that New Hampshire, the only American state without some form of compulsory seat-belt legislation, has a road traffic fatality rate that is 24 per cent below the national average?Lord Monson
: My Lords, analysis of the effects of changes in energy prices and of incomes suggests that the number of vulnerable households in fuel poverty could rise overall by up to 200,000 in England between 2003 and 2005. That estimate does not take account of improvements in the energy efficiency of the housing stock and should be seen in the context of the substantial reduction between 1996 and 2002 when the number of vulnerable fuel-poor households in England fell by 1.8 million.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, any difference in figures is not a difference of opinion between ourselves and the DTI: we are at one on this matter. There is a difference between UK and England figures. I was quoting the England figures for vulnerable households.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the position of Dr Baverstock as one member of the committee does not in any way undermine the confidence in the totality of the committee. I will not commit myself to publishing the report of the assessor since it will involve some very personal issues, on which I am not sure that it would be sensible for a Minister to give such a commitment.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the Government keep in touch with all the developing technologies. The role of CoR WM relates specifically to what to do with radioactive waste, much of which exists already, as we have said earlier, irrespective of any further decision on nuclear power. As the noble Lord will know, we are in touch, through the various nuclear authorities, including the Nuclear Decommissioning Agency, with developments internationally and, at research level, with development internationally on fusion as well as current technologies.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, there is not a hiatus in CoR WM's activity, as I said in response to the noble Lord, Lord Jenkin. The work is continuing and CoR WM will soon be reporting on its shortlist of options for dealing with radioactive waste, following which it will make its detailed recommendations. It was necessary for CoR WM to assess all feasible, and some not very feasible, options that were put to it and to consider how we deal with the issue in relation to public opinion, which, as the noble Lord will recognise, is a very delicate issue.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, setting us on the course to resolve the problem of radioactive waste is essential for any consideration of nuclear power's role in the future. Subsequent to that, questions of energy provision and the economics of nuclear power, as against other possible sources, would obviously bear on whether there was any new build in that area or others.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, it depends on how it is generated and for what it might subsequently be used. Therefore, there is not quite such a clear-cut answer to the noble Baroness's question, which I suspect she already knows. Certainly, the issue of how we deal with radioactive waste of all kinds and, in particular, high-level radioactive waste, which CoR WM is addressing, needs resolution. It needs resolution before we can take any longer-term decisions on the future of nuclear power.Lord Whitty
Radioactive Waste Management: My Lords, the Government's response to the report of the House of Lords Select Committee on Science and Technology on Radioactive Waste ManagementLord Whitty
: My Lords, I do not think that the work of COR WM is coming to pieces. It is unfortunate that we have had to consider the position of Dr Baverstock. Ministers have jointly agreed to commission a review of Dr Baverstock's position in the light of representations received from the chair of CoR WM, Gordon MacKerron, and from Dr Baverstock. That review is being carried out now with an independent assessor. I hope that the noble Lord will understand that there is not much more that I can say on that.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, Mr Maxwell's estimates are not universally accepted, but they suggest that if we continue to increase demand for fossil fuels, we will create a serious problem of climate change and begin to run out of fossil-based fuels and, in the interim, significantly increase their cost. That is why it is important that we consider all low-carbon technologies, including wind power, tidal power and wave power, as well as the nuclear option, which we have kept open, on the understanding—the next Question touches on this matter—that for nuclear power to play a major role in future, we will need to resolve the issue of radioactive waste.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, there is and will be increased demand for cooling systems, but whether there will be a proportionate demand on fossil fuels depends on how they are sourced and run. It is important that energy efficiency and improvements in the use of renewables in sourcing that energy apply to air conditioning systems as much as to heating and other uses of energy.Lord Whitty
9: My Lords, I am strongly in favour of all forms of low-carbon vehicles, including hybrid
9Lord Whitty
: My Lords, yes. There are a number of companies and government departments attempting that, although it is not universal, as has been shown by our newspapers not long ago. I therefore urge all colleagues and all private sector owners of buildings to follow that. Failing that, I will consider the noble Countess as one of the wardens to go around saying, "Turn out that light".Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the Scots have a strong and active programme for tackling fuel poverty themselves. Fuel poverty measures are a devolved matter. As for the noble Lord's question on wind farms, the Government are clearly committed to achieving 10 per cent of our energy generated by renewable energies of all sorts by 2010. Wind farms in Scotland and elsewhere will make a significant contribution towards that total and that is taken account of in our assessment of future energy prices.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, as I have just said, the providers of Warm Front will supplement the efforts of the DWP to identify and improve the take-up of benefit.
The noble Lord is correct to say that pensioners are among the most vulnerable, although other households are also vulnerable in this respect. The gearing of Warm Front's activity and that under the energy efficiency commitment and the improvements in social housing take account of the fact that pensioners are more likely to be found in the categories identified in those programmes.Lord Whitty
6: My Lords, the economists will give us a number of reasons for the rise in gas prices, including the
6Lord Whitty
: My Lords, it is a matter of immediate concern and we have a strong, robust national strategy to eliminate fuel poverty entirely by 2016–18 and for vulnerable households by 2010 in England. There must be some sense of priority here. As I said, the Government have both increased resources for the Warm Front programme and doubled the commitment under the energy efficiency scheme. Together with action on social housing, that will improve the position of exactly those vulnerable households to which the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, refers. Of course, she is well aware that there is already a strategy in place, which is being pursued vigorously by all departments involved and the industry.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, both the Exeter and Houston conferences demonstrated a growing consensus of opinion on the science surrounding climate change. Both conferences highlighted the serious global risk expected as a result of climate change and the need to adapt to those changes and to reduce emissions to avoid dangerous climate change. Those results give further weight to our work in the G8 aiming to promote an international consensus on the need for further action.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, part of the output of various events taking place, including the Exeter conference and the meeting of environment and energy Ministers taking place later this month, will be to share best practice and the best means to educate and inform the public and business of the problem of climate change and what individuals can do about it. It is clear that there is a general level of awareness, but not sufficient change in behaviour in either commerce or households. Defra has just announced a £12 million package to improve education and information schemes for individuals so that each of us can better understand what we can do to help to tackle that problem.Lord Whitty
8: My Lords, the noble Lord will know that the original plan was accepted by the Commission, but we have needed to revise that plan in the light of later information. There has been very misleading commentary on the Government's position in that respect. As I said in our debate on climate change last week, the Government have taken the latest figures—the
8Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that reply. What new, imaginative plans for the G8 countries are being proposed this year, from big business to householders, to reduce carbon emissions? Will best practice in the G8 countries be publicised? Will government and industry make more use of displays in shopping centres and museums of science and technology? In one museum in Florida, they have a Disasterville. How about us having a Climateville or Sustainville to show everyone what needs to be done?Lord Hunt of Chesterton
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Hunt of Chesterton
: My Lords, CoR WM should be looking at the whole range of science and technology issues. Can the Minister comment on how much the scientific community is being involved? Some of the issues, for example, of connecting fusion and fission power and dealing with wastes are being considered in Russia and the United States. We have no such long-range and wide-ranging programmes in the UK, about which there is a great urgency for the Government to talk to their colleagues in the OST. Does the Minister agree?Lord Hunt of Chesterton
13apparat.: My Lords, I trust that it is for the convenience of the House that my noble friend Lord Stoddart and I did not table any amendments at this Third Reading, which might have taken up quite a lot more of your Lordships' time than will the briefest of comments as the Bill leaves your Lordships' House.13apparat.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
2: My Lords, has any Minister studied the predictions of Mr Charles T Maxwell, who is, perhaps, the leading energy analyst in the United States, who believes that, taking everything into account, world oil production will peak between 2020 and 2025, by which time demand will have increased hugely, so there will be a great gap? Does the Minister recognise that that will just give the Government time to restart the nuclear programme, which would help to protect the poor in this country from rising energy prices and contribute to reduced CO2Lord Marlesford
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. We discussed this issue at considerable length with officials and with her noble friend Lord Davies. I am pleased to hear that the lines are the Glasgow underground and possibly one line of the London Underground. Is it possible to list an exemption and say from which elements they are exempt? I understand her point that we would not want a blanket exemption, but why not focus that now? We are talking about 15 years ahead. Would that not meet our point?Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I make it clear from these Benches—as I did on Report, so I do not propose to repeat my remarks—that we agree with the Government's approach of saying that not all cancers should automatically result in a person who suffers from them being deemed to be disabled. Again, giving my own experience of rodent ulcers, it does not feel right that I—for example—should be treated as disabled for the purposes of the Bill, shortly to become the Act.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, on behalf of my honourable friend the Member for Northavon, perhaps I may thank the noble Baroness for the way in which she explained the specific concerns on that part of the order. In general, we on these Benches have serious concerns about the general operation of the Child Support Agency. Of course, the noble Baroness will be only too aware of that as she has been the responsible Minister since 1997. But this is not the time or the place to go into detail. There will be other opportunities that we will pursue.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, these are terrible and inexorable diseases. I do not propose to duplicate the debate in the other place, particularly the perceptive and moving remarks of my honourable friend the Member for the ex-mining area of Chesterfield, who talked about his grandfather, a miner who suffered from diseases of this kind. In general, we support the uprating and thank the Minister for her explanation.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I am in favour of this proposal in so far as I understand it.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
mot de soirmot de jour,: My Lords, "intensive" seems to be the mot de soirmot de jour,Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
Radioactive Waste Managementasked Her Majesty's Government:Radioactive Waste ManagementLord Jenkin of Roding
10"members with long and distinguished careers in areas such as nuclear health and safety … and risk assessment".: My Lords, is the noble Lord aware that in rejecting the committee's strictures on the lack of expertise on the Committee on Radioactive Waste Management (COR WM), the Government's response, at paragraph 22, specifically refers to,
10"members with long and distinguished careers in areas such as nuclear health and safety … and risk assessment".Lord Jenkin of Roding
2: My Lords, in the light of the Exeter and Houston conferences, can the Minister reassure the House that the UK's national allocation plan for a reduction in CO2Lord Livsey of Talgarth
11: My Lords, does the noble Lord expect CoR WM to report on time, despite the present hiatus? Can the Minister also explain why we need that
11Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, given the number of wind farms in Scotland, with higher generating prices reflected in higher tariffs, how do the Government propose to protect the Scots from fuel poverty?Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, will my noble friend remind the House which party put VAT on fuel? Will he also explain why, when there are adequate supplies of gas—evidence that some supplies are being held back—the price has rocketed to an extent that makes BP's and other big companies' profits look obscene?Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Rix, has made an important point, in highlighting this problem. In this area, I take his words—I think that we all do—as gospel.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, the House will be extremely grateful to the Minister for following up the rather thorny question of who in public office will be protected from discrimination under the DDA. As drafted, the Bill did not make that at all clear. As the Minister told us on Report, she concluded that public office holders would not be covered as comprehensively as the Government had intended, as the Bill did not cover a person holding a post, only the appointment to that post.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that the poorest pensioners are the most likely to suffer from fuel poverty? Well over 1.5 million pensioners do not claim the pension credit to which they are entitled. What are the Government going to do about that?Lord Skelmersdale
"This should be remembered when making exclusions to something as important as the Disability Discrimination Bill"."Unfortunately patients and the general public hear only the word cancer, and opinions form from there. Cancer is often the only word a patient will remember in a consultation, it's often the only word a relative will hear. The word cancer is frightening, confusing and opinions are drawn".82"in the case of a person who has cancer if he has cancer of a prescribed description".[Official Report,"In my experience, people still are as terrified of cancer, and it is still as much of a bombshell of a word that stops all thought, all arguments, and raises fear and apprehension among anyone who is told".—[Official Report,"a person who has cancer … is to be deemed to have a disability".Page 42, line 43, leave out "sub-paragraph (2)" and insert "sub-paragraphs (2) and (4)"moved Amendment No. 17:
"This should be remembered when making exclusions to something as important as the Disability Discrimination Bill"."Unfortunately patients and the general public hear only the word cancer, and opinions form from there. Cancer is often the only word a patient will remember in a consultation, it's often the only word a relative will hear. The word cancer is frightening, confusing and opinions are drawn".82"in the case of a person who has cancer if he has cancer of a prescribed description".[Official Report,"In my experience, people still are as terrified of cancer, and it is still as much of a bombshell of a word that stops all thought, all arguments, and raises fear and apprehension among anyone who is told".—[Official Report,"a person who has cancer … is to be deemed to have a disability".Page 42, line 43, leave out "sub-paragraph (2)" and insert "sub-paragraphs (2) and (4)"Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I am grateful for that, but it rather worries me. Of course the Government can commit themselves, as they just have, and one assumes that the draft regulations will be issued by the government of the day after the election. Those draft regulations will almost certainly be consulted on. What worries me is, if any further regulations are necessary, whether the commitment to consultation will cover those as well.Lord Skelmersdale
HartPepper: My Lords, the noble Baroness says that it will. I am still extremely unhappy but, given what we heard from the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, and the noble Lord, Lord Ashley of Stoke, I am not inclined to press the amendment tonight.HartPepperLord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I said in passing in my modified diatribe on Amendment No. 17 that I welcomed this amendment. While I am on my feet, I very much welcome the attitude with which the noble Baroness has conducted proceedings on this Bill. It has been an exemplary performance.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has made it perfectly clear, and I accept that the Government are currently consulting. That is beyond doubt. However, the problem is that that consultation is about only a small list. I have no doubt that with advances in medical science, which occur fairly regularly, that list will have to be changed from time to time. When that happens, there is nothing in the Bill to keep a future government up to the mark on consultation. Unless we make it beyond peradventure that consultation will always happen in such circumstances, we will be failing in our duty.Lord Skelmersdale
: My Lords, I can tell the Minister that this is a far, far better thing that she does now than she has done before.Lord Skelmersdale
75: My Lords, it is a very different issue. It turns on whether there will be exemptions after 2020—it is increasingly apparent that there are likely to be. At any rate, the Government will have the power to achieve that objective, rather than having anything on the face of the Bill to prevent them.
75Lord Higgins
"I should tell you that Doug has decided that now is the time to stand aside and to allow a new chief executive to tackle the challenges ahead".: My Lords, this can best be described as a "fiddling while Rome burns" regulation. It is extraordinary that the Government should come forward with these proposals when we do not even know who is in charge of the Child Support Agency. On 17 November Mr Alan Johnson, the Secretary of State, announced to the Work and Pensions Select Committee,
"I should tell you that Doug has decided that now is the time to stand aside and to allow a new chief executive to tackle the challenges ahead".Lord Higgins
"Whether measured by official targets or any other criteria the CSA has failed; levels of complaint continue to increase, unrecoverable debts rise, the level of staff turnover is going up, the management information to monitor progress is not available and, it is clear that at present the two sectors of the public it is intended to serve treat it either with despair or contempt".91: My Lords, the noble Baroness has debated the CSA on many occasions. I admitted right at the beginning in 1997 or 1998 that the situation was difficult. That is a long time ago. I am happy to look at the matter in the broader picture, but the CSA's annual report for 2003–04 has an outstanding debt of
"Whether measured by official targets or any other criteria the CSA has failed; levels of complaint continue to increase, unrecoverable debts rise, the level of staff turnover is going up, the management information to monitor progress is not available and, it is clear that at present the two sectors of the public it is intended to serve treat it either with despair or contempt".91Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I have only one query. It is actually two orders that we are debating under this heading and, despite intensive scrutiny, I could not distinguish the difference between the two. Perhaps the noble Baroness can tell us.Lord Higgins
95: My Lords, the Minister is right in saying that the diseases covered by the regulations are terrible. Of the eight orders and regulations that we are debating, this is the only one which has already been debated in the Commons—on 22 February. An extensive debate took place, and it received an appropriate ministerial reply, which dealt with nearly all the main issues involved.95Lord Higgins
: As far as inherited SERPS is concerned, the topical statement is "Been there, done that". I do not propose to go over it again in any detail.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, the group is very much wider than the Minister suggests, since it includes the proposals for affirmative resolution and annual reports. It is an unfortunate grouping, but that is how the Government grouped it.Lord Higgins
: My Lords—Lord Higgins
62Line 4, leave out from "vehicle" to end of line 6.moved, as an amendment to Amendment No. 6, Amendment No. 7:
62Line 4, leave out from "vehicle" to end of line 6.Lord Higgins
54The provision of this Act and the regulations made under them shall apply equally to school buses regardless of whether they are provided by local authorities or privately."""47N SCHOOL BUSESIn the 1995 Act, after section 47 there is inserted—"SCHOOL BUSESAfter Clause 5, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 5:
54The provision of this Act and the regulations made under them shall apply equally to school buses regardless of whether they are provided by local authorities or privately."""47N SCHOOL BUSESIn the 1995 Act, after section 47 there is inserted—"SCHOOL BUSESAfter Clause 5, insert the following new clause—Lord Higgins
: My Lords, we commiserate with him.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, the Minister says "probably". Can she clarify that?Lord Higgins
[Rail vehicles: application of accessibility regulations]:: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister, who is always more lucid when she departs from her brief. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.[Rail vehicles: application of accessibility regulations]:Lord Higgins
63: My Lords, an exemption is not necessary. If there is a situation where, for example, the Jubilee Line annunciator system is in existence and is compliant and the company then wants to introduce a system in the back of seats, there is no reason why it should no do so. It does not need an exemption in order to do so. That is the situation.
63Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I have moved an amendment to the government amendment which effectively means that there will not be powers to create exemptions after 2020. I spelt out in considerable detail why I believed that it was the right way to proceed. I stress again that, if this amendment is not carried, the situation with regard to the Government having powers to make exemptions will, after 2020, be precisely the same as before then.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, one is never quite sure what is going to happen next in your Lordships' House. I was somewhat surprised at the answer the Minister has given. The Government have succeeded in retaining the power to make exemptions beyond 2020, with the consequences which I set out in my previous speech. It now emerges that they are also proposing to create—indeed, have created—a situation in which they can make exemptions in 2018 which could go on until 2222 or 2225, or whenever.Lord Higgins
69: Fine, my Lords, Parliament will. Yet the government of the day in Parliament will still have the power to make exemptions—in exactly the same way as the Government themselves can, at present, put proposals to Parliament for making exemptions. The effect is quite clearly that 2020 is not a deadline on which we can rely.69Lord Higgins
(1D) This section does not apply to heritage rail.""(IC) No order shall be made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) after 1st January 2020."(1B) All orders made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall expire on 1st January 2020.Page 13, line 24, at end insert—
(1D) This section does not apply to heritage rail.""(IC) No order shall be made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) after 1st January 2020."(1B) All orders made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall expire on 1st January 2020.moved Amendment No. 12:
(1D) This section does not apply to heritage rail.""(IC) No order shall be made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) after 1st January 2020."(1B) All orders made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall expire on 1st January 2020.Page 13, line 24, at end insert—
(1D) This section does not apply to heritage rail.""(IC) No order shall be made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) after 1st January 2020."(1B) All orders made under subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall expire on 1st January 2020.Lord Higgins
3: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the Government give mixed messages as, on the one hand, they say that seat belts must be used and that
3Lord Bradshaw
: My Lords, briefly, while we were unable to support the amendment in the form in which the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe of Aberavon, introduced it in Committee, we always felt that he had raised a serious issue and that his concerns were justified. It is clearly right that the chairman should be encouraged to ensure that fairness rules the day in deciding whether representation should be allowed to people involved in inquiries. For that reason, we are glad that an amendment has been produced that is acceptable to the noble and learned Lord.Lord Goodhart
43: My Lords, I have seen the correspondence to which the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, referred. His amendment moved in response to that correspondence is, as the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, pointed out, similar to an amendment moved by the noble Lord that was debated and voted on at Report. We on these Benches voted against that amendment.43Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I am most grateful to all Members of your Lordships' House who have spoken in the debate, and for the considerable weight of support that the amendment received. I am not disturbed by the fact that both speakers on the other side were the only two speakers who were not lawyers—the noble Lord, Lord Laming, and the Minister. I am particularly grateful to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay of Clashfern, who speaks from remarkable experience—as a former head of the Scottish judiciary as Lord President, a Cabinet Minister as Lord Chancellor, and the former head of the judiciary in England and Wales as Lord Chancellor.Lord Goodhart
Duration of appointment of members of inquiry panel"whose consent must be obtained""to he consulted"Page 4, line 16, leave out "whose consent must be obtained""to he consulted"moved Amendment No. 3:
Duration of appointment of members of inquiry panel"whose consent must be obtained""to he consulted"Page 4, line 16, leave out "whose consent must be obtained""to he consulted"Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, as the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, said, my name is also on the amendment.Lord Goodhart
a fortiori23Page 4, line 14, leave out "first consult" and insert "obtain the consent to that appointment of"moved Amendment No. 2:
a fortiori23Page 4, line 14, leave out "first consult" and insert "obtain the consent to that appointment of"Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that although the Tribunal of Inquiry Act procedure is available now, it has rarely been used in cases of ministerial conduct? Many cases, such as the Hutton inquiry or the Hammond inquiry, have been conducted by non-statutory inquiries.Lord Goodhart
17: My Lords, I briefly support the noble Lord, Lord Borrie, in his well argued concerns about this amendment.17Lord Laming
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, does she agree that this section of the Bill, as now stated, does nothing different to the judiciary than to any organisation from which someone may be drawn to chair an inquiry? In other words, there has to be discussion and negotiation.Lord Laming
: My Lords, your Lordships will, no doubt, think that by this stage I ought to have learnt to exercise some discretion rather than valour, surrounded as I am by distinguished lawyers—in front of me, behind me and to the right of me—but I think that this amendment goes too far. Distinguished judges are capable of knowing whether an inquiry would be appropriate for them and whether it is timely. It is entirely right to consult the Lord Chief Justice, but this amendment pushes that to an unreasonable point. The object of the Bill is to achieve a proper balance and to ensure that sensible people can arrange business in a sensible way. I hope that this amendment will not be pushed to such a degree.Lord Laming
44: My Lords, briefly, I wholly support the documents advanced by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart. I will not cover similar ground, because he has covered it very much better than I could hope to do. I think that some of the points raised in the newspaper article were misleading and would have benefited by being raised during our earlier deliberations. I am more familiar with inquiries that take place in the health service or in cases such as that of child abuse in social care.44Lord Laming
: My Lords, I follow on from the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson of Lymington. I have a great deal of sympathy with the main intention of this amendment. My concern is solely about its practicability.Lord Laming
: My Lords, do the Government have plans further to publicise the potential benefits of hybrid cars? Those benefits are enormous. Not only are those cars much more neutral in carbon consumption, they have tax breaks and, in London, do not incur the congestion charge. That is not widely known and the Government really ought to publicise it more fully.Baroness Billingham
26: My Lords, it is neither arrogance nor shabbiness that drives this Minister to take a different view from all those, apart from the noble Lord, Lord Laming, who have spoken. Being a non-lawyer, I may have approached the issue from a slightly different direction.26Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, discussion and negotiation are a critical part of the process. As we have indicated, we have specifically put within Clause 10 the consultation with the Lord Chief Justice and the other appropriate senior Law Lords, and so on, to ensure that we have covered that point. The Government's contention is that when there are issues of such national importance, we must be able at least to ask the individual. The resource issue is, in a sense, to be played into that equation, but not to be the overriding factor, for the reasons I have said, about any other profession we might be looking to bring in to chair an inquiry.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
27: My Lords, I am sorry if I misspoke. I am not a lawyer, so I am afraid I do not always use the right terminology. The noble and learned Lord will just have to forgive me for that.27Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"for any other reason, the member is unable to carry out the duties of a member of the inquiry panel".31: My Lords, I think that the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, would accept that I have striven—successfully or otherwise—to understand noble Lords' concerns on all of the amendments being put forward. Indeed, in talking both to officials and to those, far greater than myself, who draft the amendments, we have striven to ensure that we have covered what are valid and important points."for any other reason, the member is unable to carry out the duties of a member of the inquiry panel".31Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I begin by saying to the noble Lords, Lord Kingsland and Lord Goodhart, that I am grateful for their taking on board some of the issues that I raised when we previously discussed the principle behind this amendment and for the time that they gave me last week when we discussed outside your Lordships' House the issues that are raised here. Like other noble Lords, I intend to be reasonably brief, because we have dealt with the issues during the passage of the Bill.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
1918: My Lords, of course the noble Lord is correct. However, I contend that, if this amendment were to go through, there would be political pressure for the Prime Minister to seek a vote in both Houses on all occasions in issues of misconduct. That is a reality. I accept that the current position may be different, just as I accept that there are
1918Baroness Ashton of Upholland
35: My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe of Aberavon, for his comments. I will continue to strive to achieve a
35Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 8, line 11, leave out "have regard" and insert "act with fairness and with regard also"moved Amendment No. 6:
Page 8, line 11, leave out "have regard" and insert "act with fairness and with regard also"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
33"The inquiry can be brought to an end when it serves no further useful purpose",: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. I have striven again in this amendment to see what we might do. I appreciate the work done by my noble friend Lord Evans, with his beautiful good humour, to ensure that we did what the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, wanted, which was to look again. I considered this in the context of the amendments that we moved at Report to make sure that we had considered the issues properly, and we have included the obligation to consult the chairman, which was not there before.33"The inquiry can be brought to an end when it serves no further useful purpose",Baroness Ashton of Upholland
45HansardTimesTimesTimes: My Lords, this has been an interesting debate. As the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, said—he quoted from it—I have been corresponding with the noble and learned Lord, Lord Saville, on this point. I placed a copy of my full reply in the Library this morning. I understand that the amendments were drafted by the solicitor to the inquiry of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Saville, and reflect the noble and learned Lord's view.45HansardTimesTimesTimesBaroness Ashton of Upholland
38: My Lords, I believe that we are all of one mind in believing that the good management of costs is an important part of an inquiry. To the noble Viscount I say that the procedure rules are a critical part of that. If we want to ensure that we keep down final costs—I use the word "down" advisedly because we also want to ensure that inquiries have the resources that they need to carry out the jobs they are asked to do—there needs to be sensible control of expenditure during the proceedings.38Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, as the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, has said, we discussed the amendments in great detail in Committee and at Report, so I shall be brief. The clause introduces a new general obligation to publish reports. It reflects past practice by making publication generally a matter for the Minister—who will also lay the published report before Parliament under new Clause 26—but allowing for the chairman to publish it if that is more appropriate.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am sorry to interrupt the noble and learned Lord, but I was specific that the only restriction that the Minister can have is on public access and what the public who attend can say about the evidence that they have heard. There is no ability in the Bill for the Minister to restrict what the witness says or the evidence that comes to the inquiry; it is quite the opposite.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, or
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, orPage 18, line 10, after "do" insert "—
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, or
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, ormoved Amendment No. 17:
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, or
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, orPage 18, line 10, after "do" insert "—
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, or
(b) "(a) by the inquiry panel, orBaroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill do now pass.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Baroness Crawley.: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill do now pass.Baroness Crawley.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, while I thank the noble Lords, Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Stoddart, for their kind remarks about the Government Front Bench, their points have been raised at all stages of the Bill and have been responded to—obviously not to their satisfaction. I leave them with the thought that I have certainly articulated in my responses; namely, that privileges and immunities are conferred on organisations to ensure that they are able to carry out their functions unimpeded.Baroness Crawley
84: My Lords, I was one of those who spoke in favour of the amendment on a
84Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, what is the betting that nine out of 10 noble Lords in this Chamber right this minute do not wear seat belts in taxis, although they are offered them?Baroness Trumpington
: My Lords, has the noble Lord ever looked across London at night and seen the millions of lights that are on in unoccupied buildings, which must also happen in almost every city in the world? Would it not be a good idea to have a campaign saying "If it is not in use or if you don't need it, switch it off"?The Countess of Mar
: My Lords, I have it in command from Her Majesty the Queen to acquaint the House that Her Majesty, having been informed of the purport of the Disability Discrimination Bill, has consented to place her Prerogative and Interest, so far as they are affected by the Bill, at the disposal of Parliament for the purposes of the Bill.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
vis-à-visPage 4, line 22, leave out "subsection (8)" and insert "subsections (8) and (9)" moved Amendment No. 1.
vis-à-visPage 4, line 22, leave out "subsection (8)" and insert "subsections (8) and (9)"Baroness Hollis of Heigham
[Duties of public authorities]:(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but
(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but(10) Subsections (8) and (9)—
(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but
(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and
(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and(c) sections 4D and 4E would apply in relation to an appointment to the office or post if—(b) none of the conditions specified in section 4C(3) is satisfied in relation to the office or post; and(a) the office or post is not membership of a House of Parliament, the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales or an authority mentioned in section 15A(1);
(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and
(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and(c) sections 4D and 4E would apply in relation to an appointment to the office or post if—(b) none of the conditions specified in section 4C(3) is satisfied in relation to the office or post; and(a) the office or post is not membership of a House of Parliament, the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales or an authority mentioned in section 15A(1);"(9) Subsection (1) does apply in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as candidate or prospective candidate for election to, and in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as elected holder of, an office or post if—Page 4, line 30, at end insert—
"(9) Subsection (1) does apply in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as candidate or prospective candidate for election to, and in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as elected holder of, an office or post if—Page 4, line 26, after "to" insert ", and in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as holder of,"moved Amendments Nos. 2 and 3:
[Duties of public authorities]:(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but
(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but(10) Subsections (8) and (9)—
(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but
(b) are subject to section 21C(5)."(a) shall not be taken to prejudice the generality of subsection (1), but(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and
(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and(c) sections 4D and 4E would apply in relation to an appointment to the office or post if—(b) none of the conditions specified in section 4C(3) is satisfied in relation to the office or post; and(a) the office or post is not membership of a House of Parliament, the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales or an authority mentioned in section 15A(1);
(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and
(ii) section 4F(1) (but not section 4C(5)) was omitted.(i) any of those conditions was satisfied, and(c) sections 4D and 4E would apply in relation to an appointment to the office or post if—(b) none of the conditions specified in section 4C(3) is satisfied in relation to the office or post; and(a) the office or post is not membership of a House of Parliament, the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales or an authority mentioned in section 15A(1);"(9) Subsection (1) does apply in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as candidate or prospective candidate for election to, and in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as elected holder of, an office or post if—Page 4, line 30, at end insert—
"(9) Subsection (1) does apply in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as candidate or prospective candidate for election to, and in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as elected holder of, an office or post if—Page 4, line 26, after "to" insert ", and in relation to a public authority's functions with respect to a person as holder of,"Baroness Hollis of Heigham
Delivering Equality for Disabled People,Hansard52: My Lords, I hope that I am able to give the assurances asked of me and that, therefore, the noble Lord, Lord Rix—I will call him my noble friend— will withdraw his amendment. We
Delivering Equality for Disabled People,Hansard52Baroness Hollis of Heigham
[Amendment No. 10, as an amendment to Amendment No. 9, not moved.](b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and
(b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and(4) Before making regulations under subsection (3), the Secretary of State must consult—
(b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and
(b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and(3) Regulations may set out the basis on which the Secretary of State, when he comes to make an order under section 47(1), will decide which of the parliamentary procedures available under section 67(5A) is to be adopted in connection with the making of the order.(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and
(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and(2) An order under section 47(1) may be made without a draft of the instrument that contains it having been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament only if—
(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and
(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and(1) Before the Secretary of State decides which of the parliamentary procedures available under section 67(5A) is to be adopted in connection with the making of any particular order under section 47(1), he must consult the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee."67A EXERCISE OF DISCRETION UNDER SECTION 67(5A)"(2A) In the 1995 Act, after section 67 there is inserted—Page 13, line 24, at end insert—
"(2A) In the 1995 Act, after section 67 there is inserted—moved Amendment No,9:
[Amendment No. 10, as an amendment to Amendment No. 9, not moved.](b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and
(b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and(4) Before making regulations under subsection (3), the Secretary of State must consult—
(b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and
(b) such other persons as he considers appropriate.""(a) the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee, and(3) Regulations may set out the basis on which the Secretary of State, when he comes to make an order under section 47(1), will decide which of the parliamentary procedures available under section 67(5A) is to be adopted in connection with the making of the order.(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and
(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and(2) An order under section 47(1) may be made without a draft of the instrument that contains it having been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament only if—
(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and
(b) the making of the order without such laying and approval is in accordance with the regulations.(a) regulations under subsection (3) are in force, and(1) Before the Secretary of State decides which of the parliamentary procedures available under section 67(5A) is to be adopted in connection with the making of any particular order under section 47(1), he must consult the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee."67A EXERCISE OF DISCRETION UNDER SECTION 67(5A)"(2A) In the 1995 Act, after section 67 there is inserted—Page 13, line 24, at end insert—
"(2A) In the 1995 Act, after section 67 there is inserted—Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(3) The Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament each report that he prepares under this section.""(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and
(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and(2) A report under subsection (1) must (in particular) contain—
(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and
(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and72(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and
(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and(1) The Secretary of State must after each 31st December prepare, in respect of the year that ended with that day, a report on
(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and
(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and"67B ANNUAL REPORT ON RAIL VEHICLE EXEMPTION ORDERS"( ) In the 1995 Act, after section 67A (which is inserted by subsection (2A)) there is inserted—Page 13, line 24, at end insert—
"( ) In the 1995 Act, after section 67A (which is inserted by subsection (2A)) there is inserted—moved Amendment No. 11.
(3) The Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament each report that he prepares under this section.""(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and
(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and(2) A report under subsection (1) must (in particular) contain—
(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and
(b) details of consultation carried out under sections 47(3) and 67A(1) in connection with orders made in that year under section 47(1).(a) details of each order made under section 47(1) in the year in respect of which the report is made; and72(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and
(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and(1) The Secretary of State must after each 31st December prepare, in respect of the year that ended with that day, a report on
(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and
(b) the exercise in that year of the discretion under section 67(5A).(a) the exercise in that year of the power to make orders under section 47(1); and"67B ANNUAL REPORT ON RAIL VEHICLE EXEMPTION ORDERS"( ) In the 1995 Act, after section 67A (which is inserted by subsection (2A)) there is inserted—Page 13, line 24, at end insert—
"( ) In the 1995 Act, after section 67A (which is inserted by subsection (2A)) there is inserted—Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, it is no different from making those same exemptions in 2020. If they were that significant, they would have to have affirmative approval and Parliament would therefore decide. It is not a different issue from the one on which the House has already judged.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
74: Not quite my Lords; I am still pursuing the answer. The noble Lord, Lord Higgins, has indeed wrong-footed me on his first question. I agree that it is an entirely proper one and criticise myself for not having pursued the matter.74Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I repeat that the Government will not have the power to make exemptions: Parliament will.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
68: My Lords, the noble Lord is pitting his judgment against the accumulated experience of all the disability organisations. As my noble friend said, they feel happy with 2020 in the
68Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I am delighted to respond to that. I thank your Lordships for a well informed, good tempered and interesting debate. I am delighted that my noble friend Lord Ashley, who has so much experience in these matters, is very clearly behind the Government's case.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
( ) In that section,"(4A) The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on and after I st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle, but this does not affect the powers conferred by subsection (5) or section 47(1) or 67(2)."Page 13, line 2, after "regulations)," insert "before subsection (5) there is inserted—
(4A) The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on and after I st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle, but this does not affect the powers conferred by subsection (5) or section 47(1) or 67(2)."moved Amendment No. 6:
( ) In that section,"(4A) The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on and after I st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle, but this does not affect the powers conferred by subsection (5) or section 47(1) or 67(2)."Page 13, line 2, after "regulations)," insert "before subsection (5) there is inserted—
(4A) The Secretary of State shall exercise the power to make rail vehicle accessibility regulations so as to secure that on and after I st January 2020 every rail vehicle is a regulated rail vehicle, but this does not affect the powers conferred by subsection (5) or section 47(1) or 67(2)."Baroness Hollis of Heigham
56: My Lords, the problem is in defining what is covered by the fees for the education service. On the assumption that a private school will do nothing for free, because everything is part of the fee paid by the parents and included in its fees package, either explicitly or generally, it would be covered by the regulations. The closer a school bus arrangement in either the private or state sector comes to the equivalent of car share, the more likely it is to be exempt. The clearer it comes to the convention of PSV, which states that some parties are paying for some passengers, either directly or indirectly, it is on the PSV side. But behind all that lies the dividing line of whether the vehicle has 22 seats or more.56Baroness Hollis of Heigham
55: My Lords, my noble friend might also commiserate with me, because in his absence I am taking on the transport amendments of this Bill, which previously I have been able to depend on my noble friend to deliver for me.55Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I apologise for my noble friend Lord Davies, who would wish to be here, but is at the moment handling the Railways Bill.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I gave the example of a company seeking to have back-of-seat displays instead of a common denominator board, electrically illuminated with a 35mm display, in each carriage. It would not be compliant if it did not do that. A company cannot be asked to have the common denominator board and back-of-seat displays when it is introducing new vehicles to see whether that is an improvement in service. Therefore, the company would not already be compliant. It is not just a question of upgrading compliance; it is that the company would not be compliant without an exemption. If the pilot scheme is successful, it might improve facilities for disabled people across the board and be adopted for future new vehicles.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I beg to move.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
5857: My Lords, again I shall depart from my brief. I had thought that there was consent around the notion of the annual report, which is why I assumed that that was accepted. I was assuming, too, that we all accepted that there should be a terminal date of 2020 for rail vehicles.
5857Baroness Hollis of Heigham
616059: My Lords, I genuinely do not know. Others here have expertise on transport that I do not have. For example, with some of the proposed lines for London, I do not know whether the infrastructure proposed will in the future permit the sort of regulations, and the degree of exemptions, that we may wish to see. I cannot foresee that; I do not know. I am talking here largely about infrastructure issues where it would not be reasonable to seek to impose things that would effectively close those lines down. Given that none of us can foresee what the underground systems may look like by 2020, I certainly do not know the infrastructure constraints that may operate.616059Baroness Hollis of Heigham
85: My Lords, I am very glad that the extent to which the Government have moved, which I think has been considerable, has been welcomed all round the House. We have reached a position in which most people feel that if there is a case for excluding those cancers we will have that evidence. If there is a case for including those cancers in the coverage of the DDA then we will be able to examine that evidence. That seems to me to be a sound and proper basis on which to proceed.85Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, to be clear, if there are to be affirmative regulations, there will be consultation on the draft regulations, so the noble Lord's apprehensions are possibly not well founded.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, obviously there is an issue for English Heritage because making a building fully accessible undermines, contradicts or subverts some of the heritage planning laws of this country. There is a tension there, and I think we are all aware of it.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
[Meaning of "disability"]:"(4A) A relevant improvement is an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) of the 1995 Act) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises.""(b) after subsection (4) there is inserted—
"(4A) A relevant improvement is an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) of the 1995 Act) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises."""(aa) proceedings of any description to the extent that the question whether it is unreasonable for a landlord to withhold consent to the making of a relevant improvement to a dwelling house falls to be considered in the proceedings;", and.(a) in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) there is inserted—
"(aa) proceedings of any description to the extent that the question whether it is unreasonable for a landlord to withhold consent to the making of a relevant improvement to a dwelling house falls to be considered in the proceedings;", and.(3) In section 7 of the Disability Rights Commission Act 1999 (provision of assistance in relation to proceedings)—(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;
(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;(1E) In subsection (ID) the improvement provisions are—
(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;
(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;81(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;
(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;"(1D) The Commission may prepare and issue codes of practice giving practical guidance to landlords and tenants as to—
(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;
(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;(2) In section 53A of the 1995 Act (codes of practice), after subsection (1C) there is inserted—(3) "Relevant improvement" has the same meaning as in section 49G."(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;
(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;(2) Subsections (2) to (8) of section 28 apply for the purposes of this section as they apply for the purposes of that section and for that purpose a reference in that section to—
(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;
(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;(1) The Disability Rights Commission may make arrangements with any other person for the provision of conciliation services by, or by persons appointed by, that person in relation to a dispute of any description concerning the question whether it is unreasonable for a landlord to withhold consent to the making of a relevant improvement to a dwelling house.49H CONCILIATION OF DISPUTES"secure tenancy" has the same meaning as in section 79 of the Housing Act 1985."statutory tenancy" must be construed in accordance with section 2 of that Act;"protected tenancy" has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Rent Act 1977;"lease" includes a sub-lease or other tenancy, and "landlord" and "tenant" must be construed accordingly;(d) the carrying out of external decoration;(c) the erection of a wireless or television aerial, and(b) any addition or alteration connected with the provision of services to the premises,(a) any addition to or alteration in landlord's fittings and fixtures,"improvement" means any alteration in or addition to premises and includes—(9) In this section—
"improvement" means any alteration in or addition to premises and includes—(8) Subsections (2) to (6) apply to a lease only to the extent that provision of a like nature is not made by the lease.(7) An improvement to premises is a relevant improvement if, having regard to the disability which the disabled person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) has, it is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises.(6) If the tenant fails to comply with a reasonable condition imposed by the landlord on the making of a relevant improvement, the failure is to be treated as a breach by the tenant of an obligation of his tenancy.80it is for the landlord to show that it was not.(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or
(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or(5) In any question as to whether—
(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or
(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or(4) If the landlord gives consent to the making of an improvement subject to a condition which is unreasonable, the consent must be taken to have been unreasonably withheld.(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;
(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;(3) Where the tenant applies in writing for the consent—
(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;
(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;(2) If the consent of the landlord is unreasonably withheld it must be taken to have been given.(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,
(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of a dwelling house if—
(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,
(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,49G IMPROVEMENTS TO LET DWELLING HOUSES(1) In the 1995 Act, after Part 5A (which is inserted by section 3 of this Act) there is inserted—"IMPROVEMENTS TO LET DWELLING HOUSESAfter Clause 15, insert the following new clause—Page 33, line 39, leave out "which would involve" and insert "consisting of, or including,"moved Amendments Nos. 15 and 16:
[Meaning of "disability"]:"(4A) A relevant improvement is an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) of the 1995 Act) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises.""(b) after subsection (4) there is inserted—
"(4A) A relevant improvement is an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) of the 1995 Act) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises."""(aa) proceedings of any description to the extent that the question whether it is unreasonable for a landlord to withhold consent to the making of a relevant improvement to a dwelling house falls to be considered in the proceedings;", and.(a) in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) there is inserted—
"(aa) proceedings of any description to the extent that the question whether it is unreasonable for a landlord to withhold consent to the making of a relevant improvement to a dwelling house falls to be considered in the proceedings;", and.(3) In section 7 of the Disability Rights Commission Act 1999 (provision of assistance in relation to proceedings)—(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;
(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;(1E) In subsection (ID) the improvement provisions are—
(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;
(d) section 49G above."(c) sections 97 to 99 of the Housing Act 1985;(b) sections 81 to 85 of the Housing Act 1980;(a) section 19(2) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927;81(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;
(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;"(1D) The Commission may prepare and issue codes of practice giving practical guidance to landlords and tenants as to—
(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;
(c) the application of the improvement provisions in relation to relevant improvements to dwelling houses.(b) circumstances in which it is unreasonable to withhold such consent;(a) circumstances in which a tenant requires the consent of his landlord for making a relevant improvement to a dwelling house;(2) In section 53A of the 1995 Act (codes of practice), after subsection (1C) there is inserted—(3) "Relevant improvement" has the same meaning as in section 49G."(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;
(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;(2) Subsections (2) to (8) of section 28 apply for the purposes of this section as they apply for the purposes of that section and for that purpose a reference in that section to—
(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;
(b) arrangements under that section must be construed as a reference to arrangements under this section.(a) a dispute arising under Part 3 must be construed as a reference to a dispute mentioned in subsection (1) above;(1) The Disability Rights Commission may make arrangements with any other person for the provision of conciliation services by, or by persons appointed by, that person in relation to a dispute of any description concerning the question whether it is unreasonable for a landlord to withhold consent to the making of a relevant improvement to a dwelling house.49H CONCILIATION OF DISPUTES"secure tenancy" has the same meaning as in section 79 of the Housing Act 1985."statutory tenancy" must be construed in accordance with section 2 of that Act;"protected tenancy" has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Rent Act 1977;"lease" includes a sub-lease or other tenancy, and "landlord" and "tenant" must be construed accordingly;(d) the carrying out of external decoration;(c) the erection of a wireless or television aerial, and(b) any addition or alteration connected with the provision of services to the premises,(a) any addition to or alteration in landlord's fittings and fixtures,"improvement" means any alteration in or addition to premises and includes—(9) In this section—
"improvement" means any alteration in or addition to premises and includes—(8) Subsections (2) to (6) apply to a lease only to the extent that provision of a like nature is not made by the lease.(7) An improvement to premises is a relevant improvement if, having regard to the disability which the disabled person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) has, it is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises.(6) If the tenant fails to comply with a reasonable condition imposed by the landlord on the making of a relevant improvement, the failure is to be treated as a breach by the tenant of an obligation of his tenancy.80it is for the landlord to show that it was not.(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or
(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or(5) In any question as to whether—
(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or
(b) a condition imposed by the landlord is unreasonable,(a) the consent of the landlord was unreasonably withheld, or(4) If the landlord gives consent to the making of an improvement subject to a condition which is unreasonable, the consent must be taken to have been unreasonably withheld.(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;
(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;(3) Where the tenant applies in writing for the consent—
(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;
(b) if the landlord neither gives nor refuses to give consent within a reasonable time, consent must be taken to have been withheld.(a) if the landlord refuses to give consent, he must give the tenant a written statement of the reason why the consent was withheld;(2) If the consent of the landlord is unreasonably withheld it must be taken to have been given.(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,
(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of a dwelling house if—
(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,
(e) the tenant applies to the landlord for his consent to make a relevant improvement.(d) the tenant is entitled under the lease to make improvements to the premises with the consent of the landlord, and(c) the person mentioned in paragraph (b) occupies or is intended to occupy the premises as his only or principal home,(b) the tenant or any other person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises is a disabled person,(a) the tenancy is not a protected tenancy, a statutory tenancy or a secure tenancy,49G IMPROVEMENTS TO LET DWELLING HOUSES(1) In the 1995 Act, after Part 5A (which is inserted by section 3 of this Act) there is inserted—"IMPROVEMENTS TO LET DWELLING HOUSESAfter Clause 15, insert the following new clause—Page 33, line 39, leave out "which would involve" and insert "consisting of, or including,"Baroness Hollis of Heigham
787776Page 31, line 15, leave out "which would involve" and insert "consisting of, or including,"moved Amendment No. 14:
787776Page 31, line 15, leave out "which would involve" and insert "consisting of, or including,"Baroness Hollis of Heigham
9392: My Lords, like the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, at this time of night, I am reluctant to get into too wide a debate on the CSA. I
9392Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[7th Report from the Joint Committed.][7th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 26 January be approved (Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[7th Report from the Joint Committed.][7th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, the noble Lord is looking at clearances not including closures. He must look at the total picture. A large proportion of parents, even when the parent with care has made an application for maintenance, go on then to reconcile and obviously no such payment of maintenance goes on to mature. He should not blame on the CSA something that in his private capacity I am sure he would welcome: reconciliation of parents with children to support.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: Yes, my Lords.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
"(3A) Section 7(1)(aa) and (4A) extend only to England and Wales."""( ) In section 16 (short title, commencement and extent), after subsection (3) there is inserted—Page 65, line 2, at end insert—
"(3A) Section 7(1)(aa) and (4A) extend only to England and Wales."""( ) In section 16 (short title, commencement and extent), after subsection (3) there is inserted—"In section 70(5A) (certain provisions extend to England and Wales only), for "and 7B" there is substituted "7B, 49G, 49H and 53A(1D) and (1E)"."Page 56, line 32, at end insert—
"In section 70(5A) (certain provisions extend to England and Wales only), for "and 7B" there is substituted "7B, 49G, 49H and 53A(1D) and (1E)"."87"(5A) A statutory instrument that contains an order under section 47(1), if made without a draft having been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament, shall be
87Page 55, line 20, at end insert—
87"(5A) A statutory instrument that contains an order under section 47(1), if made without a draft having been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament, shall be
87Page 55, line 17, after "3(9)," insert "47(1),"moved Amendments Nos. 27 to 30:
"(3A) Section 7(1)(aa) and (4A) extend only to England and Wales."""( ) In section 16 (short title, commencement and extent), after subsection (3) there is inserted—Page 65, line 2, at end insert—
"(3A) Section 7(1)(aa) and (4A) extend only to England and Wales."""( ) In section 16 (short title, commencement and extent), after subsection (3) there is inserted—"In section 70(5A) (certain provisions extend to England and Wales only), for "and 7B" there is substituted "7B, 49G, 49H and 53A(1D) and (1E)"."Page 56, line 32, at end insert—
"In section 70(5A) (certain provisions extend to England and Wales only), for "and 7B" there is substituted "7B, 49G, 49H and 53A(1D) and (1E)"."87"(5A) A statutory instrument that contains an order under section 47(1), if made without a draft having been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament, shall be
87Page 55, line 20, at end insert—
87"(5A) A statutory instrument that contains an order under section 47(1), if made without a draft having been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament, shall be
87Page 55, line 17, after "3(9)," insert "47(1),"Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.): My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill do now pass. We have established a convention that there are no final speeches, but I endorse what the noble Lord, Lord Skelmersdale, said about the scrutiny of the House and the extent to which, as a result, in most respects—perhaps bar one—the Bill has been substantially improved in ways that persuaded the Government, as opposed to by simple votes in the House. If I may put it this way, the amendments are therefore more likely to have staying power and robustness. I thank your Lordships and, especially, officials, who have worked very expeditiously to produce amendments to meet the spirit of your Lordships' concern at Report.(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)908988[8th Report from the Joint Committed].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 2 February be approved (Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)908988[8th Report from the Joint Committed].Baroness Hollis of Heigham
[Minor and consequential amendments]:(Improvements to let dwelling houses)"( ) Section (Improvements to let dwelling houses)Page 43, line 37, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 20:
[Minor and consequential amendments]:(Improvements to let dwelling houses)"( ) Section (Improvements to let dwelling houses)Page 43, line 37, at end insert—Baroness Hollis of Heigham
"(g) regulations under section 67A(3)."Page 54, line 29, at end insert—
"(g) regulations under section 67A(3)."""relevant improvement" means an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) above) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises."""( ) In subsection (9), after the definition of "40 day period" there is inserted—
""relevant improvement" means an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) above) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises.""Page 52, line 36, at end insert—Page 52, line 36, after "5A" insert ", or any proceedings relating to a relevant improvement,""In section 4C(2) (provisions whose application to an office or post prevents sections 4D and 4E applying), for "and section 14C" there is substituted ", section 14C and section 15B(3)( b)"."Page 45, line 31, at end insert—moved Amendments Nos. 21 to 24:
"(g) regulations under section 67A(3)."Page 54, line 29, at end insert—
"(g) regulations under section 67A(3)."""relevant improvement" means an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) above) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises."""( ) In subsection (9), after the definition of "40 day period" there is inserted—
""relevant improvement" means an improvement (within the meaning of section 49G(9) above) to premises which, having regard to the disability which a disabled person who lawfully occupies or is intended lawfully to occupy the premises has, is likely to facilitate his enjoyment of the premises.""Page 52, line 36, at end insert—Page 52, line 36, after "5A" insert ", or any proceedings relating to a relevant improvement,""In section 4C(2) (provisions whose application to an office or post prevents sections 4D and 4E applying), for "and section 14C" there is substituted ", section 14C and section 15B(3)( b)"."Page 45, line 31, at end insert—Baroness Hollis of Heigham
"(h) regulations under paragraph 6A(2) of Schedule 1."Page 54, line 29, at end insert—
"(h) regulations under paragraph 6A(2) of Schedule 1."moved Amendment No. 25:
"(h) regulations under paragraph 6A(2) of Schedule 1."Page 54, line 29, at end insert—
"(h) regulations under paragraph 6A(2) of Schedule 1."Baroness Hollis of Heigham
96: My Lords, while on the subject of moving remarks, I was rereading the debate that was introduced by the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, a couple of years ago in which he spoke about white asbestos as opposed to blue and brown. I recall Lord Walker of Doncaster observing that, while the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, talked about asbestos in his barns, he had asbestos in his lungs. He held the House in his hand while he spoke.96Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 31 January be approved (Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, there was similar confusion when I introduced the two regulations the first time.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 2 February be approved. (Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Hollis of Heigham
98: My Lords, I entirely agree with that. The best way in which to ensure that people do not carry poverty through into their old age
98Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that many more people now suffer injuries, particularly facial and dental injuries. but that many of those people would have died if they had not been wearing seat belts? That rather distorts the injury figures.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, I am extremely grateful to my noble friend for having responded so comprehensively to our concerns about the needs of disabled tenants who require adaptations to their homes. I warmly endorse her congratulations on the very expeditious work carried out by the officials and by parliamentary counsel. As she has made clear. this is an extremely complex issue.Baroness Wilkins
: My Lords, does the Minister concede that it is now time for us to have a national strategy to stop the dreadful number of cold-related deaths every winter? That strategy should measure the number of people who die and ensure that the targets are not set according to means but simply reflect the number of people who die each winter, along the lines of the French strategy set up when half the number of people who die each year in this country every year died as a result of the heat a couple of summers ago. The deaths are a disgrace and must be tackled as a matter of immediate concern.Baroness Greengross
: My Lords—Baroness Greengross
: My Lords, I am worried about heritage because English Heritage has been most unhelpful towards disabled people. They have made this an excuse on many things, making various places inaccessible. I know that churches have had to pay out millions because of English Heritage.Baroness Masham of Ilton
73: My Lords, as the noble Lord, Lord Higgins, feels so strongly about these
73Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, I want to add my thanks. It is practical to have more suitable accommodation because we have a growing elderly population, many of whom are disabled. As my noble friend has said, if severely disabled people are to survive in the community, we need more help in the community.Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, the Minister will know, because I have sent him a number of Written Questions on the subject which he has kindly answered, that there is still a great deal of nuclear waste—both spent plutonium and depleted uranium—and that, as yet, it is undecided whether it is waste or an asset. The Government have given me both answers; that is, sometimes it is an asset and sometimes it is waste. In order that committees such as this can effectively deal with the size of the waste mountain, is it not time far the Government finally to decide whether it is waste or an asset?Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, we have often talked in the House about the necessity of insulating our homes to save on heating bills, but what predictions has the department made about the increased use of air conditioning to cool domestic homes? I understand that that is estimated to grow by about 6 per cent a year for the next 10 years—which, as the Minister will know, comes to 60 per cent. That would eliminate many of the savings made by more efficient heating systems.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, in the absence of my noble friend Lord Ezra and at his request, I beg leave to ask the Question standing in his name on the Order Paper.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply, although his figures seem to be slightly lower than those I have estimated on the index devised by the DTI. On that index, a total of nearly 3 million people would be in fuel poverty by the end of 2005 if prices continue to rise in the estimated way; that is, by about 10 per cent on 2003 prices.Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
: My Lords, let us hear from the Cross Benches.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
Baroness Amos.The Earl Attlee—To ask Her Majesty's Government whether, in order to reduce tax and duty evasion, H M Customs and Excise have determined the feasibility of requiring all heavy goods vehicles leaving Great Britain to do so with a nearly full tank of fuel.—(Baroness Amos.: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.The Earl Attlee—To ask Her Majesty's Government whether, in order to reduce tax and duty evasion, H M Customs and Excise have determined the feasibility of requiring all heavy goods vehicles leaving Great Britain to do so with a nearly full tank of fuel.—(Baroness Amos.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, can my noble friend say whether the decline in women prisoners in England and Wales by 160 for the year ended 14 January was due to an increase in community sentences? Will the Government encourage the greater use of community sentences for women in future?Lord Acton
: My Lords, first, I wish all Welsh Peers and all Welsh staff a very happy St David's Day. I believe that it is appropriate to offer our warmest congratulations to the Welsh rugby team on its quite brilliant win in Paris last Saturday.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that good reply, outlining the extent of the devolution that we have in Wales so far. Is the Minister aware of the Welsh Labour Party policy for further devolution, which includes a number of proposals? One is to extend the secondary legislative powers in devolved areas, and a second is to end the body corporate status, which would separate the executive from the legislature. A third proposal is to improve the electoral system to end the anomaly of a candidate standing in a constituency, losing the election, but still being elected to the Welsh Assembly. Does the Minister agree that that is a sensible proposal, in contrast with the proposal from Plaid Cymru, which still advocates independence for Wales?Baroness Gale
106: My Lords, I am aware of the Welsh Labour Party's attitude to the Richard report which is very similar to the outcome of the debate in the Assembly on that report in October last year. Following that debate, the First Minister wrote to the Secretary of State for Wales asking him to bring forward proposals to amend the Government of Wales Act. That letter has been received, is being considered by the Minister and will be replied to in due course.106Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, while we on these Benches associate ourselves with his remarks about good will to the people of Wales, does the Minister agree that, in the spirit of the Welsh rugby team and St David, the Richard commission recommendations on extending primary legislative powers to the Assembly should go ahead? Has he or any of his colleagues had discussions with the Welsh Assembly and is it their wish to extend the powers of the Assembly to primary legislation?Lord Livsey of Talgarth
: My Lords, unfortunately, I am not in a position to make government policy on this matter. I am simply the spokesman for government policy. Of course, there are excellent relationships between the Government and the Assembly, and all the matters mentioned by the noble Lord are being discussed. As I said a moment ago, we have heard from the First Minister, and the Secretary of State will be replying to him in due course.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I wish to reciprocate the Minister's good wishes on this our saint's day. Does the Minister agree that while there is plenty of scope to improve the workings of the National Assembly and its provision of services, especially in the area of health, it would not be advisable to grant further fundamental powers, particularly tax-varying powers, without another referendum of the Welsh people, who, unlike the Scots, were never faced with the tax question?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Roberts. for his question, but it is difficult to answer because Conservative Party policy on devolution is, to put it in the vernacular, all over the place. Bill Wiggin, the Conservative Party shadow spokesperson for Wales, tells us that the people of Wales would do better without an Assembly; the Tory leader in the Assembly, Nick Bourne, says that it would be disastrous to abolish the Assembly, and, best of all, after visiting Wales in January, the Leader of the Opposition, Michael Howard, said that he has not yet made up his mind but he will focus on it in due course.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that it would be sensible to allow the Assembly to have the secondary powers that it requests, whether or not it has primary legislative powers? Does he also agree that powers to deal with such matters as smoking in public places, which have been repeatedly requested by the Assembly, should be allowed to progress through the House?Baroness Finlay of Llandaff
: My Lords, I take the noble Baroness's point, but I repeat that discussions are taking place between the Welsh Assembly and the Secretary of State for Wales. I hope that many of these issues will be resolved during that debate.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
107: My Lords, given the overwhelming rejection by the voters of the
107Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, we let the people of Wales have their say. They voted for devolution. One of the constitutional reforms that this Government can be proud of is devolution of power to the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords—Lord Ackner
: My Lords—Lord Morgan
: My Lords, it is the turn of these Benches.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
"nul points": My Lords, does my noble friend recall that the Richard commission observed that the present legislative process for Wales is very unsatisfactory, with Welsh legislation depending on the whim of Ministers and civil servants in London? Would he also agree that the Welsh people have shown enormous gratitude to the Government for giving devolution to Wales, in contrast to the Tory Party in Wales, which has ended up like the English rugby team with "nul points"Lord Morgan
: My Lords, of course I agree with my noble friend on the second point. I disagree with him on his first point. These matters are not settled on the whim of the Government in London, but on intelligent discussion on where devolution is going for the people of Wales and for the Assembly.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: No, my Lords, because we already have in progress an independent evaluation of the Evercare model by the National Primary Care Research and Development Centre. Its interim report provides evidence that care based on case management principles will improve the lives of those with more complex needs arising from long-term conditions. The NHS and social care model published on 5 January recommends that healthcare providers in England adopt those principles to improve the care and support offered to their local population. That model draws on experience from overseas, including Evercare, and the NHS, without advocating any particular scheme, and will be supported by the 3,000 new community matrons the Government are funding.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his reply, but, having read the National Primary Care Research and Development Centre report on the Evercare model, it seems to me and many others who have reported on it that it is not the green light for which Ministers were hoping. Will the Government now invest in a much more robust evaluation further to what is being done at present in Manchester to consider different approaches to case management, beyond what Evercare is doing and, meanwhile, stop recruiting the 3,000 community matrons who they want to take that forward until the evidence is far clearer?Baroness Neuberger
: No, my Lords. As I tried to make clear, an interim evaluation is available. We will be receiving Manchester's final report in 2006. Sometimes, I think that there is no pleasing the Liberal Democrats. When we published the NHS and social care model on 5 January, we were chastised by the Liberal Democrat Front Bench for not moving fast enough. Now the Liberal Democrats seem to want us to go slower.Lord Warner
111: My Lords, does the Minister agree that case management is a tough and difficult job
111Baroness Murphy
: My Lords, we have done a number of things. We published the NHS and social care model for long-term conditions on 5 January. That distils the wisdom from a number of schemes, both overseas and here. There have been very good schemes in this country—those at Castlefields and Whipps Cross come to mind—of which I am sure that the noble Baroness is well aware. I accept that schemes need to be carefully planned and co-ordinated between health and social care, with GPs and with an enhanced nurses' role.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Minister mentioned community matrons. Can he reassure me that community matrons will have sufficient authority and resources at their disposal to make a real difference to how care is delivered outside the hospital setting?Earl Howe
: My Lords, the noble Earl is quite right: they need to be properly trained and to have their role clearly defined. That was the purpose of publishing the model on 5 January. As the noble Earl will know, the Government have increased NHS resources by between 7 and 7.5 per cent for five years on the trot. Primary care trusts were given their three-year allocation a couple of weeks ago.Lord Warner
: My Lords, have the Government evaluated the problems of rural areas, especially the out-of-hours problems of North Yorkshire? How will community matrons manage to get around the large mileage of the rural areas?Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, under our shift of the balance of power and devolution of budgets it is of course down to primary care trusts to work out the details of schemes that are most appropriate to their areas. I will certainly look into out-of-hours provision in North Yorkshire and write to the noble Baroness.Lord Warner
112Guardian: My Lords, no, as the Government have made clear on many occasions. The article that appeared in the 112GuardianThe Attorney-General (Lord Goldsmith)
: My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord for his reply. Nevertheless, I am left a bit puzzled. If the Written Answer that the noble and learned Lord gave to the noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay, on 17 March 2003 in this House was in fact an accurate distillation of his legal opinion of 7 March 2003, what is the objection to publishing the original text in its entirety, especially as non-publication is bound to strengthen the suspicion that the original text was doctored for public consumption in exactly the same way as the notorious intelligence dossier on weapons of mass destruction?Lord Skidelsky
: My Lords, I have never said that my Written Answer, which was my genuinely held, independent view—I was not leant on to provide it by anybody—was a summary of confidential legal advice. Having said at the time that the allegation that my Answer had been drafted by someone else was nonsense and having proved it to be nonsense, I am sorry to hear the noble Lord suggesting otherwise today.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General can clarify one aspect of the events leading up to the giving of his advice. According to paragraph 378 of the Butler report, on 28 February 2003, he met the noble and learned Lord, Lord Falconer of Thoroton, who at the time—I mean no disrespect to him—was a relatively junior Home Office Minister, and the noble Baroness, Lady Morgan of Huyton. Why did he have that meeting? Did the noble and learned Lord and the noble Baroness suggest any clarification to the advice that he was giving? Were officials present and were minutes taken?Lord Strathclyde
: My Lords, I am again sorry that the noble Lord puts the question in those terms when I have categorically stated that nobody from the Prime Minister's Office—nor the noble Baroness, Lady Morgan, nor the noble and learned Lord, Lord Falconer—had any part in the drafting. The advice that I gave was my genuinely held, independent view. What happened at that meeting is set out clearly in the report of the noble Lord, Lord Butler; that is, I conveyed to them my view and nothing more.Lord Goldsmith
113Guardian,: My Lords, does my noble and learned friend share my outrage that the 113Guardian,Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for her remarks in the first part of her question. Corrections never receive the same prominence as the original allegation—I have to be realistic about that. I am glad that the correction was noted. I hope that some people will reflect on what they have written and said about me and my office based on what turned out to be not only a leaked document but an inaccurate document.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, we know from the Butler report that the Attorney-General's formal minute of 7 March 2003 on the legality of the war contained qualifications; for example, the need for hard evidence of non-compliance by Iraq with Security Council Resolution 1441. Why were those qualifications omitted from the Attorney-General's Written Answer of 17 March? Were they thought to be unnecessary or was there some other explanation?Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I have always made clear that, in accordance with long-standing conventions followed by successive administrations, I am not going to get into the process by which legal advice was reached; nor am I going to disclose confidential legal advice given in government. What matters, and what all these questions about process lead to, is whether the view that I expressed to this House and have expressed subsequently was my genuine view. It was. Was it a view which I reached independently? It was. Was it a view that I reached because I was leant on to give it? No, it was not.Lord Goldsmith
114: My Lords, will my noble and learned friend confirm that in order that legal advice may be requested and given without inhibition,
114Lord Archer of Sandwell
"the Government might not ask for advice when they should, or might not reveal all the facts when they do".: My Lords, I confirm that absolutely. Last year, the then chairman of the Bar Council said that disclosure would be clearly against the public interest. He said that,
"the Government might not ask for advice when they should, or might not reveal all the facts when they do".Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I make it clear that I have no doubt at all that the view expressed by the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General in his Written Answer was reached independently and in the manner he has described. What troubles me is the insinuation that other parts of his opinion were not disclosed. I accept that, normally, the opinion of the Law Officers would not be disclosed, hut, in this case, the conclusion that the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General reached has been disclosed. It has not been kept confidential. It would be in the interests of the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General that the full text be disclosed as the best way of disposing of all that has been said in connection with it by others.Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord will know that I hold him in high regard, but I note that when he was Lord Chancellor in a previous administration, exactly the same thing seems to have occurred. The Attorney-General of the day, Sir Nicholas Lyell, when dealing with an extremely controversial issue concerning the Maastricht Treaty and the relevance of the Social Chapter, which Members may recall, came to another place, explained his view, but explicitly refused to disclose the actual advice that he had given. My position is entirely in accordance with precedent. The noble and learned Lord said that it would be in my interests to disclose: what I have regard to is not my interest, but what I believe to be that of the country and future governments.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, could the noble and learned Lord, the Lord Chancellor, develop his argument? Now that the Home Secretary has reached a new view for derogated powers, why should the same not be done for non-derogated powers?Lord Morris of Aberavon
: Hear, hear!Noble Lords
194193192: My Lords, I hesitate to speak without experience of the judiciary or another such profession. However, I have lived in Northern Ireland for a long time and we have had our own type of terrorism, so I shall be slightly more practical.194193192Viscount Brookeborough
asked Her Majesty's Government:The Earl of Dundee
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Does she accept that although an increase in properly designed community sentences may reduce costs, crime and recidivism, such improvements will not occur, first, if the probation service remains shortchanged—just now there is a lack of 1,100 probation officers—and, secondly, unless there is a far greater allocation of resources than is currently proposed for measures to help to prevent young adults offending in the first place?The Earl of Dundee
"conduct which gives support or assistance to individuals who are known or believed to be involved in terrorism-related activity"."conduct which gives encouragement to the commission, preparation or instigation of such acts, or which is intended to do so"—Hansard,179178: My Lords, by any standards, the terrorist threat being what it is, the dilemma facing our Government, and indeed any democratic government, is a nightmare. My noble friend Lord Giddens described that clearly. However, I also join my noble friend Baroness Hayman in saying there has to be a "but". It is not simply a matter of saying "there is a dilemma, and therefore anything goes that the Government want to happen". It is right that we should be critical in a constructive way about what is before us."conduct which gives support or assistance to individuals who are known or believed to be involved in terrorism-related activity"."conduct which gives encouragement to the commission, preparation or instigation of such acts, or which is intended to do so"—Hansard,179178Lord Dubs
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Clauses 352 and 353.—(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Schedule 18Clauses 350 to 351Schedules 16 and 17Clauses 291 to 349Schedule 15Clauses 285 to 290Schedule 14Clauses 279 to 284Schedule 13Clauses 270 to 278Schedule 12Clauses 253 to 269Schedule 11Clauses 242 to 252Schedule 10Clauses 174 to 241Schedule 9Clauses 139 to 173Schedule 8Clauses 125 to 138Schedule 7Clauses 30 to 124Schedule 6Clauses 22 to 29Schedule 5Clause 21Schedule 4Clauses 16 to 20Schedule 3Clause 15Schedule 2Clauses 12 to 14Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 11
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Clauses 352 and 353.—(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Schedule 18Clauses 350 to 351Schedules 16 and 17Clauses 291 to 349Schedule 15Clauses 285 to 290Schedule 14Clauses 279 to 284Schedule 13Clauses 270 to 278Schedule 12Clauses 253 to 269Schedule 11Clauses 242 to 252Schedule 10Clauses 174 to 241Schedule 9Clauses 139 to 173Schedule 8Clauses 125 to 138Schedule 7Clauses 30 to 124Schedule 6Clauses 22 to 29Schedule 5Clause 21Schedule 4Clauses 16 to 20Schedule 3Clause 15Schedule 2Clauses 12 to 14Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 11: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Clauses 352 and 353.—(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Schedule 18Clauses 350 to 351Schedules 16 and 17Clauses 291 to 349Schedule 15Clauses 285 to 290Schedule 14Clauses 279 to 284Schedule 13Clauses 270 to 278Schedule 12Clauses 253 to 269Schedule 11Clauses 242 to 252Schedule 10Clauses 174 to 241Schedule 9Clauses 139 to 173Schedule 8Clauses 125 to 138Schedule 7Clauses 30 to 124Schedule 6Clauses 22 to 29Schedule 5Clause 21Schedule 4Clauses 16 to 20Schedule 3Clause 15Schedule 2Clauses 12 to 14Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 11
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Clauses 352 and 353.—(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Schedule 18Clauses 350 to 351Schedules 16 and 17Clauses 291 to 349Schedule 15Clauses 285 to 290Schedule 14Clauses 279 to 284Schedule 13Clauses 270 to 278Schedule 12Clauses 253 to 269Schedule 11Clauses 242 to 252Schedule 10Clauses 174 to 241Schedule 9Clauses 139 to 173Schedule 8Clauses 125 to 138Schedule 7Clauses 30 to 124Schedule 6Clauses 22 to 29Schedule 5Clause 21Schedule 4Clauses 16 to 20Schedule 3Clause 15Schedule 2Clauses 12 to 14Schedule 1Clauses 1 to 11The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
"They may be changed, but they speak the same language in war as in peace. It has always been one of the pillars of freedom, one of the principles of liberty for which, on recent authority, we are now fighting, that the judges are no respecters of persons, and stand between the subject and any attempted encroachments on his liberty by the executive, alert to see that any coercive action is justified in law"."In England amidst the clash of arms the laws are not silent"—"The chairman (has) to inform the objector of the grounds on which the order has been made against him and to furnish him with such particulars as are in the opinion of the chairman sufficient to enable him to present his case".AndersonLiversidge171"in the interests of national security or public safety".vis-à-visAndersonLiversidge170"Let us suppose, therefore, that the government is entirely at one with the people, and never thinks of exerting any power of coercion unless in agreement with what it conceives to be their voice. But 1 deny the right of the people to exercise such coercion, either by themselves or by their government. The power itself is illegitimate".: My Lords, we all accept that this is a hugely difficult measure with which to contend. When Mr Blair says that the first human right is the right to one's physical security, one must admit that he would probably win a public opinion poll on that, as the noble Lord, Lord Young of Norwood Green, correctly said. What matters is how we act on that assertion. Public reaction in terms of fear is not always—and not in this case—a primary consideration which should engage us."They may be changed, but they speak the same language in war as in peace. It has always been one of the pillars of freedom, one of the principles of liberty for which, on recent authority, we are now fighting, that the judges are no respecters of persons, and stand between the subject and any attempted encroachments on his liberty by the executive, alert to see that any coercive action is justified in law"."In England amidst the clash of arms the laws are not silent"—"The chairman (has) to inform the objector of the grounds on which the order has been made against him and to furnish him with such particulars as are in the opinion of the chairman sufficient to enable him to present his case".AndersonLiversidge171"in the interests of national security or public safety".vis-à-visAndersonLiversidge170"Let us suppose, therefore, that the government is entirely at one with the people, and never thinks of exerting any power of coercion unless in agreement with what it conceives to be their voice. But 1 deny the right of the people to exercise such coercion, either by themselves or by their government. The power itself is illegitimate".Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for giving way. Has he consulted with his Front Bench on his idea about a Joint Committee and starting afresh and legislating within a year?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
151150Observer149: My Lords, as someone who has studied terrorism intensively over the past few years, I should like to say something about what I take to be the backdrop to this debate.151150Observer149Lord Giddens
163162: My Lords, as always, it is a pleasure to follow the noble Baroness. Save for one important respect, I agree very much with her remarks.163162Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, can the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor think of any single instance in our history in which a judge has been given the power to deprive a citizen of his liberty without a conviction by a jury?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, I wonder if the Minister could tell us how many of the original detainees in Belmarsh are still there. How many have already been released?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
154Daily Telegraph"More generally, the Secretary of State will be required to report to Parliament every three months on the exercise of his powers to impose control orders, and the operation of the legislation will be reviewed annually by an independent reviewer".153"The Government's preferred course of action is always to charge and convict as many of these potential terrorists as possible. From 11 September to 31 December 2004, 701 people were arrested under the Terrorism Act 2001. Of these 199 were charged under the Act, with 45 of them also being charged with
153: My Lords, I hesitate to enter a debate of such legal complexity and controversy, but, as somebody who has no legal background, I felt that my opinion would perhaps have some validity. As has been said in a variety of ways, the scales of justice are a balance between the rights of the individual and the need to protect society as a whole.154Daily Telegraph"More generally, the Secretary of State will be required to report to Parliament every three months on the exercise of his powers to impose control orders, and the operation of the legislation will be reviewed annually by an independent reviewer".153"The Government's preferred course of action is always to charge and convict as many of these potential terrorists as possible. From 11 September to 31 December 2004, 701 people were arrested under the Terrorism Act 2001. Of these 199 were charged under the Act, with 45 of them also being charged with
153Lord Young of Norwood Green
116: My Lords, before we begin the Second Reading of the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, perhaps I may give noble Lords the usual information about time. We have nearly seven hours before the normal finishing time of ten o'clock. Thirty-nine
116Lord Grocott
My assessment is that there is a real level of risk of attack on places of mass aggregation—airports, football stadia, music venues and the like. Evidence from AQ attacks abroad (e.g.… 9/ 11, Bali, Madrid) supports the opinion that generally they are more interested in body counts than targeting individuals. The consequence is that the burden of responsibility of the UK government to protect the ordinary citizen in almost any crowd situation is heightened by the identified risk as I have described it. Further, AQ is very different from many other terrorist groups, in that it appears to be a loose connection of associated associates albeit with shared purposes, rather than a paramilitary structure. This difference makes it more difficult to pin down exactly what AQ is at any given time, and who is or may be involved in it or under its penumbra".117Taking into account the closed material I have seen in both my reviewing roles, I have no doubt that there is an existing and unpredictable risk within the UK, and to UK assets abroad, from Al Qaeda linked terrorists. Some such terrorists are likely to be UK citizens, other foreign nationals."I am too the independent reviewer of the working of the Terrorism Act 2000. In that capacity I carry out a programme of relevant visits, and make comparative studies of counter-terrorism legislation in the UK and elsewhere. I try to keep myself fully informed as to risk levels and the basis for them.: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend Lady Scotland of Asthal, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.My assessment is that there is a real level of risk of attack on places of mass aggregation—airports, football stadia, music venues and the like. Evidence from AQ attacks abroad (e.g.… 9/ 11, Bali, Madrid) supports the opinion that generally they are more interested in body counts than targeting individuals. The consequence is that the burden of responsibility of the UK government to protect the ordinary citizen in almost any crowd situation is heightened by the identified risk as I have described it. Further, AQ is very different from many other terrorist groups, in that it appears to be a loose connection of associated associates albeit with shared purposes, rather than a paramilitary structure. This difference makes it more difficult to pin down exactly what AQ is at any given time, and who is or may be involved in it or under its penumbra".117Taking into account the closed material I have seen in both my reviewing roles, I have no doubt that there is an existing and unpredictable risk within the UK, and to UK assets abroad, from Al Qaeda linked terrorists. Some such terrorists are likely to be UK citizens, other foreign nationals."I am too the independent reviewer of the working of the Terrorism Act 2000. In that capacity I carry out a programme of relevant visits, and make comparative studies of counter-terrorism legislation in the UK and elsewhere. I try to keep myself fully informed as to risk levels and the basis for them.The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: Yes, my Lords; the only comparable case is bail or deprivation of freedom pending a trial where there is no conviction.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)A and Others124123ex parteinter partes: My Lords, in relation to derogated powers the reason we think it necessary for the judge to intervene at the outset—that is, before the order is made—is because the order's effect is to deprive the citizen of his liberty. The effect of the non-derogating order is not to deprive the individual of his liberty; therefore the consequences on the individual are fewer. That is the distinction on which we rely. We accept that in certain circumstances the effect of a non-derogating order could be onerous for the individual. That is why the Home Secretary also made it clear that within a matter of days it is important for the matter to go before the court.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)A and Others124123ex parteinter partesLord Falconer of Thoroton
ex parte121"may be subject to such formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society",120"Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person".per se119118: My Lords, the provisions introduced in Part 4 were introduced within a matter of weeks of 9/11. As I think everyone has learnt since, the threat comes, as the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew, says, not just from foreign nationals but also from UK nationals. One can see that from various prosecutions that have taken place.ex parte121"may be subject to such formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society",120"Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person".per se119118Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, it is done extraordinarily rarely; I cannot identify precisely the number of times that it has been done. We proceed on the basis that it is done extremely rarely. For it to be done there has to be a sufficient degree of risk to justify particular measures of the sort that we have described. We think that the balance, which we feel an obligation as a Government to seek to strike, has to be struck in order to balance the right to protection that people have against the freedoms that the people in this country have traditionally enjoyed.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I apologise for interrupting but there is guidance which says that exculpatory material must be disclosed to SIAC. That guidance has been approved by SIAC. I am not aware of the part of the report of the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew, to which the noble Lord refers, but the practice is accepted by the court that exculpatory material must be disclosed.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, if there is an obligation to produce exculpatory material, the noble Lord will be satisfied.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I most certainly did not say that—high as the temptation is. I was saying that I understood the noble Lord to have said that he accepted the principle of a control order. He appears to be convincing everybody that neither the Secretary of State nor the judge should make it. I wonder, then, who could make it?Lord Falconer of Thoroton
191: My Lords, I have been struggling to find the new factors that are driving us to require the Bill. The only new element that I can see is the arrival of the suicide bomber. He had not been on the screen before. I understand the dilemma the Government have in dealing with the problem of the suicide bomber, although whether this legislation is the most appropriate method to deal with it is another issue.191Lord Haskins
212: My Lords, I accept the principle of the control order—subject to the procedure for implementing it conforming with the principles of due process. Under the Bill, it manifestly does not do that,
212Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I shall move on. As regards the other situation for control orders, the protection for the individual is even weaker. Here, I understand that the Government remain firm that the Secretary of State will initiate the order. There will be no opportunity for automatic review by the court, which will review only if there is an appeal. That review by the court will not be on the merits. It will only be as to whether the procedure has been properly followed by the court.Lord Kingsland
"Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers must secure … that the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it on those proceedings"."make provision enabling the relevant court to conduct proceedings in the absence of any person, including a relevant party to the proceedings and his legal representative".211(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".
(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)"."Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers may also, in particular—
(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".
(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;
(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;"Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers may, in particular—
(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;
(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;210: My Lords, this has been an outstanding debate with many fine speeches. The balance of opinion expresse1d has been perfectly obvious to me and I am in no doubt that it has been perfectly obvious to the government Benches as well. Moreover, the Government can be in no doubt that they will face many amendments to the Bill."Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers must secure … that the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it on those proceedings"."make provision enabling the relevant court to conduct proceedings in the absence of any person, including a relevant party to the proceedings and his legal representative".211(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".
(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)"."Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers may also, in particular—
(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".
(a) make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;
(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;"Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers may, in particular—
(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;
(c) make provision about legal representation in such proceedings".(b) enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing; and(a) make provision about the mode and burden of proof in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings;210Lord Kingsland
184Guardian"judicial authorisation if they are to be in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law. Such prior judicial authorisation is regarded by the Court of Human Rights as an inherent feature of the rule of law, which requires safeguards against arbitrary detention".prior""The degree of judicial involvement provided for in the Bill … is unlikely … to be compatible with the Convention requirement that deprivations of liberty must be 'in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law' in Article 5 of the Convention. Other than in the exceptional circumstances enumerated in Article 5(1)(a)-(f), deprivations of an individual's liberty require prior"Prevention of Terrorism Bill: Preliminary Report.183: My Lords, there can be little doubt that the Home Secretary has an unenviable task. Whatever he does he will be in the firing line. If he refuses to make any more concessions concerning the Bill he would be blamed for the failure of the Bill in this House. If he were to make too many concessions and the terrorists were to resort to the extremities which are envisaged he would be held culpable.184Guardian"judicial authorisation if they are to be in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law. Such prior judicial authorisation is regarded by the Court of Human Rights as an inherent feature of the rule of law, which requires safeguards against arbitrary detention".prior""The degree of judicial involvement provided for in the Bill … is unlikely … to be compatible with the Convention requirement that deprivations of liberty must be 'in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law' in Article 5 of the Convention. Other than in the exceptional circumstances enumerated in Article 5(1)(a)-(f), deprivations of an individual's liberty require prior"Prevention of Terrorism Bill: Preliminary Report.183Lord Clinton-Davis
166165The Trialex hypothesi,164: My Lords, this is as serious a business as we are ever likely to engage upon. It would be helpful to remember, for a moment, the Writ that summons us to this House at the beginning of each Parliament. The words speak of imminent perils. They require each one of us to treat and give our counsel on such matters, in particular with regard to the safety and defence of our
166165The Trialex hypothesi,164Lord Brennan
143142: My Lords, I share many of the misgivings about sacrificing highly prized and ancient liberties in the search for greater national security. Both propositions have degrees of shading. Nothing is absolute about either liberty or security. The measure of the former is far better understood and catalogued over centuries than any possible measurement of the latter—that is, of security. There is no realisable or deliverable absolute about security.143142Lord Craig of Radley
Daily Telegraph198: My Lords, being the thirty-fourth speaker, I have listened to this debate throughout. I have noticed most of all that the balance of opinion is well against this Bill. I have also noticed that people believe that it is a rushed job, and that it should not be. They believe that it should be given proper consideration. One almost suspects that the Government have brought forward this Bill in haste simply out of a lit of pique at the Law Lords' ruling on Part 4 of the previous terrorism Bill. I hope that is not so.Daily Telegraph198Lord Stoddart of Swindon
148ex parte147: My Lords, I have to confess that on 16 December 1 felt some sympathy for the Home Secretary when the Appellate Committee gave its opinion on the matter of the Belmarsh detainees. I thought it pretty odd to condemn as unjustified discrimination a measure which provided for the detention of foreign nationals, but not British nationals, when the foreign nationals were only there because they could not be deported for fear that they would face torture and could leave the country if they wished. It did not seem to me that there was much equivalence between foreigners who could not be deported because they may face torture and Britons who could not be deported because they were British, but there it is.148ex parte147Lord Waddington
152Official Report,"because of practicality. It may be that information comes before my right honourable friend the Home Secretary or his counterpart in any future government that clearly demands immediate action. In those circumstances, it would be simply practical and easier for that decision to be made and for it to be very quickly reviewed".—[Official Report,When it comes to the derogation orders, the Minister says that the merits of the decision, which cannot be considered on judicial review—or very rarely—then can be scrutinised. If the merits of the decision can be scrutinised after the Minister has made his decision, why cannot they be considered before the Minister makes his decision? Why cannot the Minister go to the judge and say, "I propose to do this. Is this, on the merits, a right and valid decision?"."My Lords, the Minister has very fairly accepted that judicial review is not a process of appeal. It is a procedure to ensure that the Government have not exceeded their jurisdiction. It is a jurisdictional matter and a procedural matter.: My Lords, I had the great good fortune on 22 February to sneak in with the last question on that day's Statement on the prevention of terrorism. I asked:
152Official Report,"because of practicality. It may be that information comes before my right honourable friend the Home Secretary or his counterpart in any future government that clearly demands immediate action. In those circumstances, it would be simply practical and easier for that decision to be made and for it to be very quickly reviewed".—[Official Report,When it comes to the derogation orders, the Minister says that the merits of the decision, which cannot be considered on judicial review—or very rarely—then can be scrutinised. If the merits of the decision can be scrutinised after the Minister has made his decision, why cannot they be considered before the Minister makes his decision? Why cannot the Minister go to the judge and say, "I propose to do this. Is this, on the merits, a right and valid decision?"."My Lords, the Minister has very fairly accepted that judicial review is not a process of appeal. It is a procedure to ensure that the Government have not exceeded their jurisdiction. It is a jurisdictional matter and a procedural matter.Lord Ackner
: My Lords, do the Government accept that the reduction in the discretion of the judge to imprison or not and the imposition on the judiciary of minimum sentences tends to add to the population in prison?Lord Ackner
Official Report,"Above all, something should be done within a framework of respect for the rule of law and an awareness of the need for those at the hinge point between the security of the state and the freedom of the individual—and no one is more at that hinge point than the Home Secretary of the day particularly when there is public clamour—to remain as calmly judicial as possible".—[Official Report,132"the Special Advocates have no means of pursuing or deploying evidence in reply. If they put forward a positive case in response to the closed allegations, that positive case is inevitably based on conjecture … The inability to take instructions on the closed material fundamentally limits the extent to which the Special Advocates can play a meaningful part in any appeal"."except insofar as the appellant has been given the gist of the allegation and has chosen to answer it. Yet the system does not require the Secretary of State necessarily to provide even a gist of the important parts of the case against the appellants in the open case which is provided to the appellants. In these situations"—"Special Advocates have no means of knowing whether the appellant has an answer to any particular closed allegation"—: My Lords, if that is the present position under SIAC, why is it not in the Bill? Why is it not on the face of the Bill that full and fair disclosure must take place? As I was saying, how can these provisions be consistent with the right to a fair trial at common law, never mind about the European Convention? It is a blatant abuse of what we have known as the proper processes of justice.Official Report,"Above all, something should be done within a framework of respect for the rule of law and an awareness of the need for those at the hinge point between the security of the state and the freedom of the individual—and no one is more at that hinge point than the Home Secretary of the day particularly when there is public clamour—to remain as calmly judicial as possible".—[Official Report,132"the Special Advocates have no means of pursuing or deploying evidence in reply. If they put forward a positive case in response to the closed allegations, that positive case is inevitably based on conjecture … The inability to take instructions on the closed material fundamentally limits the extent to which the Special Advocates can play a meaningful part in any appeal"."except insofar as the appellant has been given the gist of the allegation and has chosen to answer it. Yet the system does not require the Secretary of State necessarily to provide even a gist of the important parts of the case against the appellants in the open case which is provided to the appellants. In these situations"—"Special Advocates have no means of knowing whether the appellant has an answer to any particular closed allegation"—Lord Thomas of Gresford
"ensure an effective counter-terrorism response"."The Government provides a legislative framework to enable stakeholders to deliver the frontline measures which"—"our law is wise and merciful, and supposes every man accused to be innocent till he is tried by his peers"."to issue such a warrant as this is contrary to the genius of the law of England"."enormous trespass and violence had been done on a mere surmise".129"is more to be avoided, in a free constitution, than uniting the provinces of a judge and a minister of state"."effectual care is taken to remove all judicial power out of the hands of the … privy council; who, as then was evident from recent instances, might soon be inclined to pronounce that for law, which was most agreeable to the prince or his officers. Nothing"—: My Lords, we on these Benches agree that the security of the country is certainly the prime duty of government. However, that duty is not exclusively theirs. It is shared with the judiciary, the police and security services, the military and many others. The Secretary of State is rightly concerned with the prevention of terrorist acts which may be planned for the future. Government must be vigilant and rigorous in the interception and use of intelligence—and in the surveillance of suspects. It is essential for efficiency that their methods and techniques are kept secret. Yet this is nothing new. We have 30 or more years of mainland terrorism behind us in this country—not to mention the daily, dangerous and dirty war in which the security services are involved with the drug cartels."ensure an effective counter-terrorism response"."The Government provides a legislative framework to enable stakeholders to deliver the frontline measures which"—"our law is wise and merciful, and supposes every man accused to be innocent till he is tried by his peers"."to issue such a warrant as this is contrary to the genius of the law of England"."enormous trespass and violence had been done on a mere surmise".129"is more to be avoided, in a free constitution, than uniting the provinces of a judge and a minister of state"."effectual care is taken to remove all judicial power out of the hands of the … privy council; who, as then was evident from recent instances, might soon be inclined to pronounce that for law, which was most agreeable to the prince or his officers. Nothing"—Lord Thomas of Gresford
131130: My Lords, I am aware that it was Mr Faulkner who, as the then Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, introduced internment there. However, coming to today, why were so-called enemy combatants locked up in Guantanamo Bay? So that they could be confined, interrogated and tortured on foreign soil by executive order—away from the paramount requirements for due process that is the glory of the American judicial system.131130Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, that suggests that the noble Lord does not follow what judicial review is about. Judicial review looks to see whether the Minister has followed the correct procedure in arriving at his decision. Is his decision flawed in that way? It does not seek to substitute the judge's view of the merits for that of the Secretary of State.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, perhaps I may—Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, the Minister says that we are where we are; but where are we? Is the noble Baroness concerned that the 11 people detained in Belmarsh will have to be released on 14 March?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, let me finish the question. The noble Baroness has told us that if they come out under this legislation it is not necessary, so the security services say, for them to be subject to house arrest and that non-derogating orders will be sufficient to control them. Why would she object to an application for bail in the next fortnight which would enable them to come out? We should be able to come back to all these matters following the election, whichever government were in power.Lord Thomas of Gresford
203In the Highest Degree Odious."(a) has reasonable ground for suspecting the individual is or has been involved in terrorist-related activities","may make an order (called a 'control order') against an individual if he—"Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers must secure … that the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court. or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings".202The Trial"The Secretary of State may make a control order imposing an obligation that is incompatible with the controlled person's right to liberty under Article 5 of the",201: My Lords, it is an extraordinary feature of what is happening here today that we are having a Second Reading of a government Bill that, tomorrow morning, will be radically altered by a series of government amendments. The terms of those are unknown to me; I have had some indication by listening to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. We are having a Second Reading on something that is about to change. The change is highly material to the one point that I want to make at this late hour, being No. 35 in the batting order—if you can have that many batsmen.203In the Highest Degree Odious."(a) has reasonable ground for suspecting the individual is or has been involved in terrorist-related activities","may make an order (called a 'control order') against an individual if he—"Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers must secure … that the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court. or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings".202The Trial"The Secretary of State may make a control order imposing an obligation that is incompatible with the controlled person's right to liberty under Article 5 of the",201Lord Neill of Bladen
182181: My Lords, a government with good intent but with bad or incompetent ideas is a dangerous combination. Can there be a better illustration than this Prevention of Terrorism Bill? The alarm bells are ringing. This Bill is all about law, but it is far too important to leave exclusively to lawyers. It is about the judiciary, but the judges must not write the script. It is about the process of policing, yet the authority granted the powers of the Act must itself be closely challenged, as must the advice of the intelligence organisations.182181Lord Kalms
And confident thou'llt raise me with the just".I'm hopeful, once thou'llt recollect my dustLord (since thou knowest where all these atoms are)"Scatter my ashes, throw them in the air,174173: My Lords, it is a great pleasure to be able to follow a fellow Scot. As noble Lords are aware, we are dealing today with laws for the whole of the United Kingdom. Therefore, the contributions from the different parts are of significance.And confident thou'llt raise me with the just".I'm hopeful, once thou'llt recollect my dustLord (since thou knowest where all these atoms are)"Scatter my ashes, throw them in the air,174173The Duke of Montrose
(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee222221: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in the name of my noble friend Lady Scotland of Asthal on the Order Paper. This regulatory reform order is brought forward under the Regulatory Reform Act 2001 by Her Majesty's Prison Service and the Home Office.(Lord Bassam of Brighton.)8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee222221Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, the noble Viscount asks an important and sharp question. He is right: this issue has been raised before.Lord Bassam of Brighton
177"it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting","may make an order … against an individual if he … has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been",176175: My Lords, as I see it, the outstanding feature of the Bill, is the extraordinary difference between the way in which derogating orders and non-derogating orders are made and dealt with. Perhaps I may go quickly through that. A derogating order is limited to six months. It is not renewable. The Home Secretary, or whoever, has to start again to produce a new order. A non-derogating order is limited to 12 months instead of six and it is renewable. One does not have to think again; one just decides whether there has been sufficient change to justify some changes.177"it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting","may make an order … against an individual if he … has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been",176175Lord Donaldson of Lymington
: My Lords, I accept that. But it requires the court to consider whether the Secretary of State has misdirected himself or herself; whether the Secretary of State has taken into account factors which should not have been taken into account; and whether the Secretary of State has taken into account all the factors which should properly have been taken into account in reaching that decision. That seems to be a safeguard to which we can all subscribe.Lord Harris of Haringey
137: No, my Lords, that is not the inference. There is the assumption that substituting
137Lord Harris of Haringey
: My Lords, the risk is that that is detention for a fortnight while investigations proceed. There are clear indications that a fortnight may be insufficient under certain circumstances. Maybe that is a different way in which you could approach this issue. If you are facing that sort of investigation, where the material is not such that could be brought before the court because it would prejudice the intelligence source that has hitherto proved reliable, how long do you carry on before intervening? The intervention that my noble friend Lady Hayman talks about is a temporary intervention; it does not necessarily stop what is happening, and it may not succeed in that end. I wonder how many Members of your Lordships' House would be prepared to stand up afterwards and say that because we were not content to allow this Bill to go forward, we allowed some devastating terrorist act to take place. Those are real dilemmas, and this Bill is an honest attempt to try to balance the realities of the situation that we have before us.Lord Harris of Haringey
135: My Lords, I begin by declaring an interest as the member of the Metropolitan Police Authority with particular responsibility for the national and international functions of the Metropolitan Police, in particular counter-terrorism. Given the discussions that I have had and the information that I have received, I am convinced that a number of serious attacks on this country have been averted in the past two or three years as a result of the actions and work of the Metropolitan Police, the security services, and others engaged in that work.135Lord Harris of Haringey
204: My Lords, as the last speaker I can say, like John the Baptist, I am not the end but the end is near. I have listened very carefully and many interesting points have been made. Not being a lawyer, but a statistician, I shall describe my dilemma. On the one hand, there are matters of civil liberties and, on the other, there is the risk of terrorism. A statistician would consider that we could make two kinds of errors: one is rejecting the true hypothesis and the other is accepting the false hypothesis. On the one hand, we could make the mistake of incarcerating an innocent person, but, on the other hand, we could make the mistake of letting go a terrorist. There is no way of eliminating both errors. The choice we have is to fix the level at which we have one error and minimise the other.204Lord Desai
205: My Lords, do you not know me? Do I talk to my Front Bench? Does my Front Bench talk to me? You are joking. What happens when you have to sit here and listen to 35 speeches is that eventually ideas come. Literally, I did not have these ideas until I went out to have a sandwich. Maybe that is what did the trick. But this is not a package I am offering. There is no official sanction behind this. These are just my own thoughts, sitting on the Back Benches—and the further back you sit, the better it gets.205Lord Desai
: My Lords, internment in Northern Ireland was introduced by the Ulster government. It was withdrawn not by the Ulster government but by a Labour government. There are still people locked up in Northern Ireland under that heading in the way to which the noble Lord refers.Lord Merlyn-Rees
127: My Lords, the noble Baroness rehearses the danger of allowing a Home Secretary to lock people up without due course of trial, but that has been going on for 20 years. I locked people up without
127Lord Merlyn-Rees
"The real threat to the life of the nation, in the sense of a people living in accordance with its traditional laws and political values, comes not from terrorism but from laws such as these".168167Official Report,"Liberty, without which democracy has no meaning, and the rule of law, without which state power cannot be contained, look to Parliament for their protection, but this Parliament, sad to say, is failing the nation badly".—[Official Report,"As we move towards a system of justice that found favour with the South African Government at the time of apartheid and which parallels Burmese justice today — the unthinkable, the unimaginable is happening here".: My Lords, it is a pleasure to follow the noble Lord. I agree with much of what he had to say, particularly in respect of the need to look again at the whole question of using intercept as admissible evidence in cases of the kind that we are considering."The real threat to the life of the nation, in the sense of a people living in accordance with its traditional laws and political values, comes not from terrorism but from laws such as these".168167Official Report,"Liberty, without which democracy has no meaning, and the rule of law, without which state power cannot be contained, look to Parliament for their protection, but this Parliament, sad to say, is failing the nation badly".—[Official Report,"As we move towards a system of justice that found favour with the South African Government at the time of apartheid and which parallels Burmese justice today — the unthinkable, the unimaginable is happening here".Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, I apologise for interrupting. Perhaps the Minister can help me with something that has been puzzling me. Of course I accept that there is a serious threat, but the provisions which were challenged by the Law Lords originally applied only to foreign nationals and not to British citizens. So if there is such a serious threat from British citizens, why did the Government act only following that challenge? Why was it not necessary to take action before then?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
"I don't say that the French can't come; I just say that they can't come by sea".190"The island was safe. The pleasant pastures, cornfields and commons of Hampshire and Surrey would not be the seat of war. The houses and gardens, the kitchens and dairies, the cellars and
190"I know I have the body of a weak and feeble woman but I have the heart and stomach of a King and a King of England too and think it foul scorn that Parma or Spain or any prince of Europe should dare to invade the borders of my realm".Official Report,"It is important that the power is vested in a court because in this country we believe that the powers of detention should be exercised by courts, not by politicians, civil servants or parts of the Executive".—[Official Report,"The notion that one should be detained by executive power rather than order of the court is contrary to the provisions of the convention on human rights. If the right hon. … Gentleman cannot understand that, he cannot understand the basis of British law"."will exercise them in a proper way, because the very principle of the rule of law is that that decision should be made by a court, not a politician".189"It is not good enough to say that the Home Secretary"—Official Report,"It must be accepted, as it was accepted when the power was introduced, that prima facie the power is offensive to the basic principle of the rule of law, which is that deprivation of liberty should be through the courts and not through politicians".—[Official Report,: My Lords, I do not agree with the noble Lord, Lord Truscott. I am afraid that I believe that this Bill is an assault on ancient liberties and that one of the reasons I am privileged enough to be in your Lordships' House is to play a small part in protecting ancient British liberties. Those liberties have served us well and have allowed us to prosper and to go forth from a fairly primitive society into one of the most civilised societies on earth."I don't say that the French can't come; I just say that they can't come by sea".190"The island was safe. The pleasant pastures, cornfields and commons of Hampshire and Surrey would not be the seat of war. The houses and gardens, the kitchens and dairies, the cellars and
190"I know I have the body of a weak and feeble woman but I have the heart and stomach of a King and a King of England too and think it foul scorn that Parma or Spain or any prince of Europe should dare to invade the borders of my realm".Official Report,"It is important that the power is vested in a court because in this country we believe that the powers of detention should be exercised by courts, not by politicians, civil servants or parts of the Executive".—[Official Report,"The notion that one should be detained by executive power rather than order of the court is contrary to the provisions of the convention on human rights. If the right hon. … Gentleman cannot understand that, he cannot understand the basis of British law"."will exercise them in a proper way, because the very principle of the rule of law is that that decision should be made by a court, not a politician".189"It is not good enough to say that the Home Secretary"—Official Report,"It must be accepted, as it was accepted when the power was introduced, that prima facie the power is offensive to the basic principle of the rule of law, which is that deprivation of liberty should be through the courts and not through politicians".—[Official Report,The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords—The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, the noble Baroness said that the Home Secretary would be making a "political" decision. It should not be a political decision; it should be that the Home Secretary has evidence that so and so wants to do something nasty and that his nastiness justifies him being put away for a bit. Surely, he must show to the judge, or a similar person, that so and so has been sufficiently nasty that he needs to be locked up. That is not a political decision; that is essentially a policing or judicial decision.The Earl of Onslow
"No terrorist force however strong or terrifying can destroy our civilisation - we alone can do that by allowing ourselves to be bullied or scared into dismantling the structures which made it what it is. At the moment I am far more afraid of Parliament than I am of any terrorist"."In my opinion, such a power in any form is not compatible with our constitution".208207206: My Lords, after 36 speeches, we come to the concluding part of the debate. Perhaps I may take the opportunity to thank the noble and learned Lord, Lord Falconer, for his explanation of the Bill and say how much I look forward to the explanation of the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland. She gave very little away on "Newsnight" last night, but I hope that she has some better news for your Lordships' House."No terrorist force however strong or terrifying can destroy our civilisation - we alone can do that by allowing ourselves to be bullied or scared into dismantling the structures which made it what it is. At the moment I am far more afraid of Parliament than I am of any terrorist"."In my opinion, such a power in any form is not compatible with our constitution".208207206Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, will the Minister confirm that recent research studies indicate that curfew orders have not been effective and that people who receive custodial sentences reoffend within two years? Does she consider that the resources given to the probation service are inadequate, in the sense that in some parts of London the probation service is almost at breaking point? Does she therefore consider that to improve non-custodial alternatives it is necessary to put much more resource into the probation service?Lord Dholakia
"exceptional circumstances demanded exceptional responses. Terrorism must be countered and the government has every right to take the necessary steps. Lack of appropriate legislation would render this nation virtually defenseless against terrorist attacks, but threatening individual liberty and failing to protect citizens from imprisonment without trial, is an even greater danger to this country".Rotherham Advertiser,200"The idea that a detainee's flat on the 16th floor of a tower block in the East End of London in a Muslim stronghold might become the focus of community demonstrations does not seem to have occurred to Mr. Clarke".199: My Lords, our law rightly gives security and intelligence services powerful instruments with which to carry out their duties. Suspects can be arrested and questioned on the basis of intelligence information. Phone calls can be tapped, every detail of an individual's life can be examined and suspected terrorists can be detained for up to 14 days.
"exceptional circumstances demanded exceptional responses. Terrorism must be countered and the government has every right to take the necessary steps. Lack of appropriate legislation would render this nation virtually defenseless against terrorist attacks, but threatening individual liberty and failing to protect citizens from imprisonment without trial, is an even greater danger to this country".Rotherham Advertiser,200"The idea that a detainee's flat on the 16th floor of a tower block in the East End of London in a Muslim stronghold might become the focus of community demonstrations does not seem to have occurred to Mr. Clarke".199Lord Ahmed
122: My Lords, in contrast to the point made by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd, can the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor tell us how many times the executive has suspended habeas corpus in the past 200 years—which,
122Lord Pilkington of Oxenford
: My Lords, is it the Minister's view, as it is the view of most people engaged in prison reform work, that it is almost always—if not always—the case that far more can be accomplished to rehabilitate an offender by the use of a community service order over a long period than by custody over a short period, which simply produces disruption and instability in the Prison Service and prevents it doing the work that it is best equipped to do?The Lord Bishop of Worcester
134133: My Lords, there are many in this Chamber more qualified than I am to speak about the detail of this Bill. I speak bearing in mind the responsibilities that I associate with the privilege of speaking from these Benches. These Benches have resounded with the words of people who have remembered that the most repeated text in the scriptures is the words "fear not". They have therefore remembered that terrorism is not just a series of unacceptable, revolting, disgusting actions. It is also a system of belief that the best way to achieve your ends in life is by terrorising people through fear.
134133The Lord Bishop of Worcester
188vis-à-vis: My Lords, I shall keep my speech relatively short—first, because I do not want to repeat earlier points and, secondly and more importantly, I have a terrible cold.188vis-à-visLord Truscott
146145au fait144: My Lords, I should preface my remarks by saying that I am a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and therefore I share and indeed endorse the assessment of the Bill produced by that committee at great speed last week. There will be another assessment, due later this week.146145au fait144Lord Plant of Highfield
: My Lords, while we broadly welcome the thrust of this order, I draw the Minister's attention to the rider at page 7 from the Delegated Powers Committee. I should like his reassurance that there will be no interruption in protection should for any reason the agreements fail and Section 127 was reinstated. At paragraph 7 the committee mentioned the possibility of this happening in a Recess. Can I have an assurance again that Section 127 would be in place in time? The committee's further rider is that if negotiations for the continuance of an agreement were in progress, the Government would give ample time for the reinstatement of Section 127 to take account of those negotiations failing.Viscount Bridgeman
"to destroy religious toleration, the rule of law and democratic freedoms".187"This goes light years beyond what we did in the Patriot Act. Are you guys tearing up Magna Carta?".186"Modern Islamic terrorists are made, not born"."intransigent hatred for the enemy that takes one beyond the natural limitations of the human being".185: My Lords, many noble Lords have today spoken in defence of the rule of law, due process and the protection of individual liberties. They are much better qualified than me to talk about the legal aspects of the Bill, but I support them from the bottom of my heart as your Lordships try to put the lid back on these moves towards a more repressive and authoritarian state."to destroy religious toleration, the rule of law and democratic freedoms".187"This goes light years beyond what we did in the Patriot Act. Are you guys tearing up Magna Carta?".186"Modern Islamic terrorists are made, not born"."intransigent hatred for the enemy that takes one beyond the natural limitations of the human being".185Lord Garden
"b. not require a derogation from the European Convention on Human Rights"."a. deal with all terrorism, whatever its origin or the nationality of its suspected perpetrators; and"We strongly recommend that the powers which allow foreign nationals to be detained potentially indefinitely should be replaced as a matter of urgency. New legislation should:139138: My Lords, as the former chairman of the Newton committee, to which some reference has been made in these proceedings, perhaps I may make a couple of preliminary points. First, although I speak from these Benches I shall, as always on these
"b. not require a derogation from the European Convention on Human Rights"."a. deal with all terrorism, whatever its origin or the nationality of its suspected perpetrators; and"We strongly recommend that the powers which allow foreign nationals to be detained potentially indefinitely should be replaced as a matter of urgency. New legislation should:139138Lord Newton of Braintree
141140: My Lords, I recognise the serious problems facing the Government. Since 9/11, we have been faced with a terrorist threat that is indeed more serious than the threat that we faced before. Part 4 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 has now been declared incompatible with the Human Rights Act. The Government would probably be acting unlawfully, and certainly politically unwisely, if they simply extended Part 4 for a few more months; I quite understand why they do not wish to do that.141140Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, is the noble Lord therefore suggesting—as the inference clearly is from what he says—that sentences for ordinary crimes should be imposed by a member of the government?Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that we would not be satisfied simply with a debate on a report of a review produced in some 12 months' time? What I think the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, was suggesting, and what we would wish, is that there should be some procedures, such as putting a fairly short sunset clause into the Bill, so that the substance of the matter would have to be reconsidered by Parliament which could properly then debate the issues which we shall not have time to debate on this Bill.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. I accept absolutely that it does not change the situation of where we are. It might make some of us feel considerably more comfortable about agreeing to take measures to protect where we are now if we had assurances that soon in the future when we consider making prosecutions more possible we could also review and, if necessary, change what is proposed at present.Baroness Hayman
161160"While it would be possible to seek other powers to detain British citizens who may be involved in international terrorism it would be a very grave step. The Government believes that such draconian powers would be difficult to justify. Experience has demonstrated the dangers of such an approach and the damage it can do to community cohesion and thus to the support from all parts of the public that is so essential to countering the terrorist threat".159: My Lords, the noble Lord. Lord Newton, my erstwhile chairman on the review committee on the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001, spoke eloquently. He said that he did not speak for the whole committee, but he expressed
161160"While it would be possible to seek other powers to detain British citizens who may be involved in international terrorism it would be a very grave step. The Government believes that such draconian powers would be difficult to justify. Experience has demonstrated the dangers of such an approach and the damage it can do to community cohesion and thus to the support from all parts of the public that is so essential to countering the terrorist threat".159Baroness Hayman
136: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for giving way. Does he accept that under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act police have the ability to arrest without a warrant and then to detain for up to 14 days before charging someone against whom there is a reasonable suspicion of being a terrorist? The control orders deal with someone who the Home
136Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, given the shortage of placements for community service orders, although one applauds the way in which they are being rolled out, to what extent is the voluntary sector being used? Could we make greater use of the voluntary sector for that purpose?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
197196in camera,in camera.195: My Lords, I want to go back for a moment to the judgment of the Law Lords. Back in December, they said that detention without trial of non-citizens was contrary to human rights. I want to remind the House how that judgment presented an opportunity to a new Home Secretary to draw a line under the hasty legislation passed immediately after 11 September. It was an opportunity to return to legal principle.197196in camera,in camera.195Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
126125: My Lords, we do not underestimate the difficulty of the problem facing the Home Secretary. There is indeed no difference between us on the determination to protect our public from terrorism. We know that there are no easy answers but, as I made clear last week, we believe that the Home Secretary has settled on the wrong answers, which may sacrifice essential and long-standing British principles of liberty and justice in a way that is unlikely materially to enhance the security of our people. The Government have quite properly, and laudably, put into effect measures to prevent the radicalisation of groups in our society; these laws, and the sense of injustice that they may create, could completely negate those efforts.126125Baroness Anelay of St Johns
128Hansard773: My Lords, the noble Lord has a very distinguished history as a Home Secretary, one that is almost second to none. I say "almost" only because I do not wish to praise other Home Secretaries less. I assume that his reference is to the situation in Northern Ireland, which all of us found extremely painful. Whatever may have happened in the past, in different circumstances, in Northern Ireland, I look today at what should be done this year, in these circumstances, in our British society, and what is the right thing to do now.128Hansard773Baroness Anelay of St Johns
158: My Lords, I am a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and I completely concur with the findings in its preliminary report that was published last week.158Baroness Falkner of Margravine
172: My Lords, an appalling terrorist outrage happens and inevitably the question is asked, "Could the government have done more to prevent it?". The answer is "Yes, if the government had reasonable grounds for suspicion and had acted on those suspicions sufficiently effectively".172Baroness Goudie
110: My Lords, as the noble Baroness will know, we are working through the local criminal justice boards creatively to consider
110Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, we have clearly set out our view that community sentences should be used for non-dangerous, non-violent offenders where that would be most effective. I hope that noble Lords will remember that the menu of orders presented in the Criminal Justice Act 2003 takes us from conditional cautioning, before a person is brought to court, right the way through to custody minus, which comprises all those things that fall short of imprisonment. We think that we now have the appropriate menu from which the judge can choose both to punish and, we hope, to enhance rehabilitation and reduce the level of recidivism.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I do not accept the fundamental precept on which the question is based. As I said to the noble and learned Lord during the passage of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 and other Acts, the discretion of the judge remains. Of course there is a clear framework and standards, but it remains within his remit for the judge in any given case to come to a decision about how to do justice in that case, as it properly should. The noble and learned Lord will know that minimum sentences have been used very sparingly and, we would say, proportionately.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
109: My Lords, as I have already made clear, the Government have already made
109Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I very much agree with my noble friend on the need to look at increasing the use of non-custodial sentences for women where appropriate. We do of course welcome the reduction. It is difficult to ascribe such changes in the figures to one particular factor. It would appear that the decrease in the number of female prisoners for the year ending in January is largely the result of the decrease in the remand population. However, there was also a 6 per cent reduction in the size of the shorter sentence prison population and there are indications of a welcome increase in the number of women being given community sentences during the 12 months to September 2004. So I very much welcome the import of my noble friend's question.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Earl that it is very important that the probation service is properly resourced. It has a very important role to play. Since 1997, spending on prisons has increased in real terms by 30 per cent and spending on probation by 46 per cent. However, there has been a significant increase in sentence severity despite those changes. So we are making a real commitment to resource the probation service to enable it to do the job which it is more than fitted to do.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
108: My Lords, we believe that prison should be reserved for serious, dangerous and seriously persistent offenders, and that less serious, non-dangerous offenders can be more effectively dealt with through community sentences rather than short-term imprisonment.108The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, of course, I hear what my noble friend says about that matter. Contrary to what has been asserted by noble Lords in this debate, we have not closed our minds because the parliamentary process continues. So, for instance, if we look at the process, at what we shall have to do with reviews, we already have a situation where the Government have indicated that this Act will be reviewed at the end of 12 months. The Home Secretary will make his report on a quarterly basis. The House will have an opportunity, therefore, to be appraised of the development of these issues as they go on. Knowing this House as I have come to know it and love it, I am confident that your Lordships will not be slow in making sure that the Government do their duty in that regard.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the noble Lord will not be surprised if from the Dispatch Box today I say that it is not currently our view that such a provision would be necessary, bearing in mind the opportunities we are already putting in place to review these issues. This is Second Reading. I have made it clear that we shall continue to look at the matter, but I give no such guarantee. But these are matters which will need to be considered continually.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords—Baroness Scotland of Asthal
217: My Lords, I am conscious that it is ten o'clock; I am conscious that I have been on my feet for 16 minutes; and I am conscious that I have not yet trespassed upon the many contributions made by noble Lords with which I think I should properly deal in order to make sure that there is some information for the House to have when we
217Baroness Scotland of Asthal
216: My Lords, I was using the word "political" in the way in which it was used in the debate—therefore loosely—and I was seeking to indicate that it was a decision taken by the executive, as opposed to a decision by the judiciary. In making that decision, the Home Secretary would have to make sure that he had full cognisance of all those matters that might pertain, enabling him to make a reasonable decision on whether it would be proper to seek such an order or to make such an order himself.216Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, if I may finish this sentence I would be grateful. We listened carefully to what was said by all of those who urged with great energy that it should not be the Home Secretary who made that decision in relation to derogating orders, it should be the judges. I hear too the concern echoed on behalf of the judiciary by the noble Lord, Lord Neill. In my response I foreshadowed that that might be an anxiety, and it was for that reason I explored it when I made the Statement.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
"Having seen extensive material, I am in no doubt that national security could be at risk if certain types of evidence were revealed to the detainees. At risk too would be some individuals' lives. The kind of evidence I have in mind includes that provided by (in this context precious) human resources including those who might be described as a term of art as informants, disclosure of locations used for observation, details of technical facilities available for listening to and/or reading communications, descriptions and identities of police officers and others, and methods of risk assessment used by the control authorities".: My Lords, I think I can say without fear of contradiction that we have had a wide-ranging comprehensive debate during the past almost seven hours. No one can say of this debate that it has not fully looked at a number of the issues. Let me immediately thank all my noble friends and other noble Lords who have agreed with the Government's position. However, I shall explain a little more fully those points where we have differed. if I may, I shall take up the points made by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, last of all. I shall try to indicate the areas where it seems to me that there is agreement."Having seen extensive material, I am in no doubt that national security could be at risk if certain types of evidence were revealed to the detainees. At risk too would be some individuals' lives. The kind of evidence I have in mind includes that provided by (in this context precious) human resources including those who might be described as a term of art as informants, disclosure of locations used for observation, details of technical facilities available for listening to and/or reading communications, descriptions and identities of police officers and others, and methods of risk assessment used by the control authorities".Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I believe 11 are still there.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
mea culpa.219de facto218: My Lords, the conditions have not yet been set. The basis on which those orders would be made is not clear. If we possibly can, we want to move seamlessly from the position that we are in now into a position which would be better controlled under a non-derogating order.mea culpa.219de facto218Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Amos.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)115: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.
(Baroness Amos.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)115Baroness Amos
157156Official Report,"do bear an extraordinary resemblance",—[Official Report,155AndersonLiversidge: My Lords, I am afraid that I cannot agree with the conclusion of the noble Lord, Lord Giddens, who has just sat down. I hope briefly to explain why. It is important to remember that throughout our modern history what might be called our sea defences against unfair executive power have been serially attacked by the threat, at arty rate, of erosion.157156Official Report,"do bear an extraordinary resemblance",—[Official Report,155AndersonLiversidgeLord Mayhew of Twysden
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for what he has said. From Second Reading onwards—certainly in Committee and on Report—we all agreed that the Ofsted inspection process should be speeded up, with a lighter touch and self-evaluation. However, we felt there were problems in the way it might operate, and my noble friend Lady Perry put those arguments very well. She sends her apologies for not being here, but is on her way to Korea, no doubt to sort out the inspection regime there. She thanks the Minister and the Government for taking a lot of the points on board. One or two matters have not been covered, such as the number of inspections in which new inspectors should participate before they become fully fledged. My noble friend said at the time that she was not sure whether three was the right figure and wanted the Government to come back with a suggestion.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, we, too, feel that the Government have gone to some trouble to incorporate the spirit of the amendments that were passed on Report into their amendments. We have no objection to them and will be supporting them.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I echo those sentiments, having sat through a number of debates on this issue. I am very pleased that the Government have listened and acted accordingly.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
252: My Lords, had it been possible for him to have been present, my noble friend Lord Sutherland of Houndwood would have wished to thank the Government for these further amendments. As one who also spoke on them, I thought the ingenuity with which the Government, in Amendment No. 21, have replaced paragraph (2)(5) of Schedule I is the most practical and effective way of ensuring that additional inspectors are
252Lord Dearing
: My Lords, we on these Benches support the amendment. My very first political campaign, before I was really political, was to try to keep a small rural school open, not because my children went there but because they might go there. The only improvement I might have wanted for this amendment is to consider the parents of children who are not quite old enough to go to the school but might choose to go there in a couple of years. However, that might seem a little excessive to your Lordships.Baroness Walmsley
254: My Lords, I support this amendment, but I hope very much that it will not be assumed that it has been put forward entirely with parents and rural communities in mind. I entirely agree with what has been said about the importance of the school in a village or rural community. However, I emphasise how tremendously important it is for the local children as well. The argument in respect of the best interests of the children is also supported by the amendment.254Baroness Warnock
: My Lords, before I speak to the amendment, I should like, without erring and straying like a lost shepherd too much, to avoid letting this week pass without noting the impending retirement of my noble friend the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Derby. He has been a good friend of education in his diocese and beyond. His quiet, wise and business-like way of bishoping—which is in stark contrast to anything that could be said about me—has been appreciated here and elsewhere.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
257256"Before publishing any proposals under this section, the relevant body shall consult such persons as appear to them to be appropriate; and in discharging their duty under this subsection the relevant body shall have regard to any guidance given from time to time".255: My Lords, I am grateful to noble Lords who have spoken. We had thoughtful, even passionate, debates about the issue at every stage. The noble Baroness, Lady Morris, began by saying that she was passionately convinced about the worth of rural schools. Amen, my Lords—we are all passionately convinced of the worth of rural schools; we are absolutely at one.
257256"Before publishing any proposals under this section, the relevant body shall consult such persons as appear to them to be appropriate; and in discharging their duty under this subsection the relevant body shall have regard to any guidance given from time to time".255Baroness Andrews
258: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for, as always, her thoughtful
258Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, no apology is needed. There was no edge in what I said.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, anyway, it was a huge oversight and I still proffer my apologies. The right reverend Prelate also said in Committee that he would resist the temptation to support it and I am sorry that we have not been able even to tempt him that little bit more.Baroness Morris of Bolton
263: My Lords, these Benches would like to support the Conservatives on this amendment. We had a number of reservations about earlier amendments that they put forward because we felt they placed too much emphasis on referring closures to the Secretary of State. We were unhappy with that. The new amendment, which, as the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, said, is a very mild amendment, merely asks that any closure should be discussed with all parents and all local authorities who send pupils to that school.263Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, perhaps I may intervene briefly. When we previously discussed the matter, the noble Lord, Lord Filkin, argued against the amendment because it placed the responsibility on the Secretary of State. He argued convincingly that it was unrealistic to expect the Secretary of State to be able to take good decisions for the whole country from his office.Lord Dearing
: My Lords, I also support the amendment. The Minister has introduced a general clause into the Bill which requires that looked-after children—another very special group of children—are given preference over other pupils because they are moved around to such an extent. This is another example of a very special, fragile group of children, where there is a feeling that, perhaps for very good reasons, the Government have gone a little too far in wishing to close the schools and have special units within mainstream schools. It is for that reason that I hope they will consider accepting the amendment.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I rise to support what the noble Lord, Lord Dearing, and others have said in favour of the amendment.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
264: My Lords, I too would like to support the amendment. Wherever possible, disabled children should be in mainstream schools. But there are some children, as has been said—and I think particularly of those who are deaf and blind—who are extraordinarily disabled. The teachers are marvellous.
264Baroness Masham of Ilton
266Achievement,Removing Barriers265Removing Barriers: My Lords, I am almost tempted to shock the House by saying that I also would want to support the amendment, given the chorus. That is except for the rather good reason that it is already the current system. I do not want us to over-excite ourselves and think that were we so unpersuaded by my arguments, the world would change much if the provision was passed.266Achievement,Removing Barriers265Removing BarriersLord Filkin
: My Lords, I am afraid I do not quite agree with the Minister on the way that the guidance is currently worded. It is not firm enough on consultation with parents. One could get away with simply calling a meeting of parents, which is what happens. Therefore all the parents are not consulted fully.Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, for giving way.Lord Filkin
267: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that. I was going to thank him for the latter part of his contribution, where he set out some of the things he is doing to raise awareness of the issue, so that parents are more assured about the Government's intentions regarding the education and support of their children.
267Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I and the NSPCC, with which I have a voluntary association, are very pleased to thank the Government sincerely for tabling the amendment, as they promised on Report.Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, the Minister referred to my intervention on the matter. I am truly grateful for the amendments.Lord Dearing
: My Lords, I add my thanks to the Government for tabling the amendments after due consideration in Committee and on Report.Lord Hanningfield
270: My Lords, I rise to support the amendments and gently to disagree with the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Manchester.
270The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
"contribute to their well-being": My Lords, I thank the House for its support for the amendments. I confirm that the definition of "well-being" has been arrived at by reference to Section 10 of the Children Act. This is the same definition that is employed elsewhere in the Bill. I think that that is the assurance that the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, was seeking. She asked why we had written,
"contribute to their well-being"Lord Filkin
273Making a Difference: Reducing School Paperwork.272: My Lords, I am sometimes advised by my noble friends behind me not to waste too much time on days like today trying to persuade the House, because sometimes it feels as if people have already made up their mind before we have had a debate and because the audience for the debates is perhaps wider than just the Chamber. I do not take their advice of course, because I know that noble Lords listen attentively to every word that we say and are persuaded by the debate rather than by preconceptions.273Making a Difference: Reducing School Paperwork.272Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I welcome that indication that HMCI might be invited to undertake a thematic review. In my view, that is the right way to go about it. Yes, there is a massive problem. There needs to be action. This approach, however, looks a bit bureaucratic. I much prefer the independent thematic review by the inspector.Lord Dearing
[Removal of requirements for governors' reports and parents' meetings]:274: My Lords, this is an issue which is not going to go away. We are all concerned about it, and I am grateful to the Minister because he has expressed his views and is obviously concerned about it.[Removal of requirements for governors' reports and parents' meetings]:274Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, I support the noble Baroness in her amendment. When we debated this issue on Report, I agreed with virtually everything the Minister said. He stressed that the Government are seeking greater parental involvement and that events have moved on. But I agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, that removing the signal that it is a good idea to hold a parents' meeting is a mistake.Lord Hanningfield
277: My Lords, I apologise for not being in my place at the start of the remarks of the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, in support of her amendment. I am afraid that my agnostic hesitation about Amendment No. 3 now gives way to a deeper scepticism about this amendment. That is not born out of a sense of looking at this from an ivory tower, but from experience as serving both as the chair of governors of a school and, shall we say, serving as a parent of children in other schools at the time when the legislation specifying a meeting was brought in. I hasten to add that those are two different kinds of service.277The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, I am afraid that I must disagree with the right reverend Prelate. It is a great pity that this annual event is not to be proceeded with. It is argued that only those who are interested attend, while the rest of the parents feel even more excluded. While I am not against efforts to find new methods of involving parents—of course teachers and governors should find new ways and means of communicating with parents—it must be said that we have not yet found them. Given that, why, for goodness' sake, are we destroying a provision which enables some parents to attend the sort of meeting that they find valuable? They can learn about areas which perhaps they have not thought about, which in turn may influence their own approach to the school.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
"Duty to have regard to views of certain persons".: My Lords, I raised a number of issues in relation to the annual meeting of the governing body at Second Reading because of my experience at a school where there was a lack of communication between the governing body and the parents. I posed the question of whether the annual meeting, notwithstanding the frequent problem of lack of attendance, provided a way of giving parents at least one opportunity to raise issues."Duty to have regard to views of certain persons".Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
279278: My Lords, I shall not speak for excessively long as it is probably one of those afternoons.279278Lord Filkin
[Supply of information: free school lunches etc.]:[Amendment No. 9 not moved.]: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I recognise that he has moved in this direction, and he will be delighted to hear that that movement is sufficient for us not to wish to test the opinion of the House.[Supply of information: free school lunches etc.]:[Amendment No. 9 not moved.]Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, the sentiments behind the amendment are worthy, timely and just, but should it find a place in the Bill? My view is that it should because these academies are a new breed of school and the more they are seen to show the same collective disciplines as every other kind of school—in this case professional discipline regarding the teaching profession—the better.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
284"The Academy Trust shall employ as teachers persons who meet the health standards set out in the Education (Health Standards) (England) Regulations 2003 and who are also qualified teachers within the meaning of the Education (School Teachers' Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2003".283: My Lords, as we know from previous discussions on various parts of the Bill, academies are registered independent schools. Like all independent schools, they are not bound by the legislative framework that applies to maintained schools. Instead they have their own legislative framework, which includes inspection by Ofsted to obtain registration, which ensures a high standard of professionalism and propriety within the independent sector.284"The Academy Trust shall employ as teachers persons who meet the health standards set out in the Education (Health Standards) (England) Regulations 2003 and who are also qualified teachers within the meaning of the Education (School Teachers' Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2003".283Lord Filkin
285: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that response. I would like to respond to a few of his points.285Baroness Walmsley
288: My Lords, we did indeed have a discussion in Committee about regulations on school funding being subject to the affirmative procedure. In fact, debating "affirmative or negative" is one of the leitmotivs of this House. I do not mean to be flippant. We signalled that it was excessively burdensome always to have the affirmative procedure, but, recognising the feeling of the House, I accept that the introduction of three-year budgets based on the academic year is an important and significant change and that the House has a legitimate interest in scrutinising the detail of the proposals.288Lord Filkin
[Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Schools In England]:: My Lords, this is an example of how this place can work. I am grateful to the Minister for accepting the amendment. Given, as I said, that this is complex legislation, this amendment is the right way forward.[Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Schools In England]:Lord Hanningfield
290: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Hanningfield, for what I heard as an important probing amendment. The noble Lord is seeking to get on to the record some clarification of the detail of these mechanisms. I will do my best to be as helpful as I can. If there are further points of detail, I will seek to buttress it with further correspondence—copied, of course, to both opposition parties—if that would be helpful.290Lord Filkin
Hansard: My Lord, I thank the Minister for that reply. It does set my mind partly at rest. I was also reassured that he might set out some further thoughts in writing. As we are now probably moving to this legislation becoming law, we want to make certain that three-year funding, which we all support, will work. We want to make certain that the Government have all the procedures in place and the arrangements for consultation.HansardLord Hanningfield
291: My Lords, before finally moving that the Bill do now pass, I want to thank the House. The
291Lord Filkin
: My Lords, returning to the Question, does the noble Lord agree that the present situation is far from satisfactory, for the reasons given by noble Lords, and that, at least, consideration should be given to whether something should be done about it?Lord Campbell of Alloway
: Yes, my Lords.Lord Campbell of Alloway
: My Lords, in that case I have to agree with the noble Lord. We would not otherwise have introduced the Licensing Act.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I must say, my Lords, I find that slightly ungrateful, since the words of the noble Baroness's own amendment are found in the guidance.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
225: My Lords, I am not at all clear what the noble Lord, Lord Campbell, means
225Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, those who represent residents will be able to make representations. I do not know whether all local residents associations will fall into that category. I assume that most will. Therefore, they will be able to make representations.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
"the reduction of the living and working amenity and environment of interested parties",: My Lords, I am in no position to quarrel with what the noble Lord, Lord Phillips, says about a legal application of "public nuisance". But the Government's position has always been that the prevention of public nuisance includes the prevention of—and I shall quote, for reasons that I will make clear—
"the reduction of the living and working amenity and environment of interested parties",Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am reluctant to burden the House by going over ground which, as the noble Baroness, Lady Gardner, says, was debated in the House only last week. The thrust of that debate was that we revised the proposed charges; we increased them significantly. Generally, it is agreed that nearly all local authorities will find that the charges cover their costs. At the same time there were considerable complaints from potential licensees that the charges were too high. There was an attempt to make both those arguments against the Government at the same lime. It did not work very well.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, as was explained in the House during the stages of the Licensing Bill, such an amendment is not necessary. From 7 February local residents have been able to make representations to their licensing authority about variations to existing licences and certificates and new applications for premises licences and club premises certificates on grounds relating to the four licensing objectives, including public nuisance.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
238237236235A strong BBC, independent of government.: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I shall repeat a Statement made in another place by the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. The Statement is as follows:238237236235A strong BBC, independent of government.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
244Building Public Value243: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, and the noble Lord, Lord McNally, for their responses to the Statement and the Green Paper. I hope that the House accepts that I do not need to restrict myself to two minutes in responding to them. I crave the indulgence of your Lordships if I go beyond the 20 minutes that is supposed to be allowed.244Building Public Value243Lord McIntosh of Haringey
"not able to be in his seat",: He heard the Statement, yes, my Lords. Anyway, that was not meant to be a recriminatory remark. I said that the noble Lord was,
"not able to be in his seat",Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am grateful for that welcome. The noble Lord, Lord Barnett, asked two questions. He asked, first, about the licence fee and whether I could give an assurance that it would not be used for other than the purposes of the BBC during the 10 years of the charter period. I cannot give that assurance. I thought I had made it clear that I was not giving such an assurance. I said in the Statement and repeated in response to noble Lords on the Opposition Front Benches that we expect the licence fee to make a contribution to the cost of digital switchover. That includes the marketing costs and what I call targeted assistance, and it includes participation in the costs of SwitchCo, the governing body.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, on the noble Lord's first point, I do not think that I said anything about the provision of set-top boxes or aerials. If I did, I did not mean to. I have given no undertaking that anyone will give assistance in the provision of set-top boxes and aerials.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
247: Yes, my Lords, I can give that assurance. I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Lipsey, for what he said about the necessity for a 10-year period. He is entirely right. It is important that the licence fee should achieve value for money for licence fee payers. We are pleased that the BBC is
247Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, that is a very good point, but I rather think that this is a debate that will never end. There is always a conflict for the BBC between the need for high-quality and varied output and ratings. From time to time, the BBC regards it as a threat if it finds itself with falling ratings. It would find it difficult to maintain the requirement for the licence fee if, ultimately, taking it to the extreme, very few people were to watch the BBC. Fortunately that is not the case. Fortunately, the BBC has been able to combine a very reasonable preservation of ratings, even in a multichannel environment, with high quality.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, that is a detail of the trust which will be a matter for consultation in the coming months. Of course we accept, and would insist, that there will have to be people on the trust who are capable of reflecting the needs of the nations and regions of this country. How that is spelt out in the membership of the trust or in the provision of, for example, advisory committees is a matter on which we are seeking views and on which we will respond in due course.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am well aware of the issue raised by the noble Lord, Lord Macdonald of Tradeston. Last year, in the course of the public consultation on the charter review, I visited Belfast, Cardiff, Glasgow and Edinburgh. I heard that view being widely expressed, particularly by the broadcasters themselves—among both the commercial broadcasters and BBC Wales, BBC Scotland and BBC Northern Ireland—who produce marvellous stuff, but could not get that networked. I have much sympathy with that view. In part, this is a matter of ensuring that the quality is good enough to be networked and, therefore, to meet the requirements of the noble Lord. It would certainly be legitimate for the BBC trust to take a view on this matter and to say to the Executive that something more has to be done.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I entirely agree with the noble Lord, Lord Bragg. That is exactly why I have talked about "plurality" on numerous occasions in the last three-quarters of an hour. To me, public service broadcasting is not providing the service that the people of this country require unless it comes from a variety of sources. That clearly means not just the BBC, but ITV, Channel 4, Channel Five, and so on. Indeed, there are elements of public service broadcasting in Sky—and in other channels—which are not regulated in the same way.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I think the Statement fairly sets out the degree of public support for the BBC, which confirms what was said by the noble Lord, Lord Sheldon. The Statement also sets out areas of dissatisfaction with the BBC. I am sure that the noble Lord will recognise that there are areas where people are dissatisfied, and have some justification for being so. As for the role of Ofcom, I made clear that we are not proposing to extend that beyond what is allowed for within the Communications Act.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the Minister's reply, for which I thank him, refers to representations made in respect of public nuisance. Do not the Government realise that "public nuisance" is a crime and sets a legal threshold far above the comings and goings of the public in the early hours of the morning to a pub or club? Therefore, in practical terms, is it not the truth that ordinary residents in ordinary locations do not have a leg to stand on in the licensing procedures under the Act?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Phillips of Sudbury
248: My Lords, I, too, welcome the Statement. Following the previous question about reflecting the UK's nations, regions and communities, I welcome the statement that people should see the full diversity of the UK and their local communities reflected in mainstream as well as regional programming and that a significant slice of programme production should take place outside London.248Lord Macdonald of Tradeston
319318: My Lords, we on the Liberal Democrat Benches welcome the regulations, which are
319318Lord Greaves
328: My Lords, the noble Baroness does the House a favour by raising this matter, bringing to the attention of the Minister the comments of the Merits Committee, particularly in relation to dairy farmers, and providing him with an opportunity to explain how he thinks the regulations will work.328Lord Greaves
336335"These orders are drawn to the special attention of the House".: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Wilcox, is right to bring this matter to the attention of the House, although I do not agree with a lot of what she has said in moving her Motion. However, our debate tonight has demonstrated that the Merits of Statutory Instruments Committee is proving to be useful in scrutinising delegated legislation that previously was not adequately examined. The reports of the committee do not use very often the phrase set out here:
336335"These orders are drawn to the special attention of the House".Lord Greaves
: My Lords, we on these Benches support the order and thank the Minister for his comments.Lord Greaves
: I am sorry, my Lords. We must move on to the next Question.Lord Davies of Oldham
321: My Lords, I join with others in paying tribute to my noble friend Lord Carter and Defra for the good work they have done in bringing forward this legislation. I declare an interest as a dairy farmer, although it is most unusual for dairy farmers to use labour of this kind. It is very encouraging to see that the momentum on the gangmasters' licensing front has been maintained and that the authority will soon be established. Can my noble friend say when he expects the first licences to be issued?321Lord Grantchester
: My Lords, one of the outcomes of yesterday's meeting, which seemed, I agree, very positive and useful, was that the American Lieutenant General Ward is to be appointed to co-ordinate the security structures of the new Palestinian state to defeat terrorism—without which, of course, no state could be formed. Will his remit also cover dealing with the Syrian Government, and indeed the Lebanese government when there is one again, because the evidence is that a great deal of the terror, both in the Palestinian area and in Israel, is constructed in those territories? They must be dealt with if there is to be security in Palestine.Lord Howell of Guildford
modus operandi: My Lords, I very much welcome this further step of establishing the board in implementing this major reform. I have some questions that bring the matter sharply into focus now that we see the modus operandiLord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords, before my noble friend sits down, would it be the position that when the authority is up and running it will have its own budget and make its own decisions about public information campaigns; but between now and then, I presume, some public information will have to be given, if only about the responsibilities of employers to prepare for the new regime? Could that help to fill the gap to which the noble Baroness, Lady Byford, referred?Lord Lea of Crondall
320"that his business is complying with … employment law (including immigration and taxation legislation)".: My Lords, there was a case in the press in just the past two or three weeks in which workers were picking flowers for Marks and Spencer, under a gangmaster, for net pay of 52 pence an hour. The report says that Marks and Spencer was shocked by the report and will be carrying out its own investigation, but it shows that there is a big issue of exploitation which we have to address.320"that his business is complying with … employment law (including immigration and taxation legislation)".Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords, does my noble friend the Minister accept that, from the point of view of public service broadcasting, the licence fee is by far the best means of financing that activity? His announcement that it will stay for the full charter period is, therefore, extremely welcome.Lord Lipsey
"A Regulatory Impact Assessment has not been prepared for this instrument as it has no impact on the public sector, business, charities or voluntary bodies".: My Lords, I think that the order is absolutely wrong. Here we are, on 2 March, discussing bringing forward an election two months to 5 May. If it really were a matter of synchronising local government elections in England and local government elections in Northern Ireland, it would be thoroughly and properly discussed as a synchronising measure and would not be rushed in at this stage. We all know what this is about—it is about the unannounced general election."A Regulatory Impact Assessment has not been prepared for this instrument as it has no impact on the public sector, business, charities or voluntary bodies".Lord Shutt of Greetland
(Lord Triesman.)[5th Report from the Joint Committee].: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in the name of my noble friend Lord Filkin on the Order Paper.(Lord Triesman.)[5th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Triesman
: My Lords, will the individual residents associations and local amenity societies be able to make representations to the licensing authority that a particular area should be declared one of cumulative impact? Will the DCMS advise local authorities in conducting the public meetings recommended in Section 2.7 of the guidance to ensure that an opportunity is given to local residents to make submissions on that matter? Will the collection of information which demonstrates cumulative impact as the evidential basis for the decision to have a special policy include crimes of violence against the person and call-outs for ambulances in the vicinity of licensed premises? If so, why cannot it also be used to assess the impact of the Act on crime and disorder, as I have suggested 15 times?Lord Avebury
: My Lords—Lord Dykes
(The Chairman of Committees.): My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(The Chairman of Committees.)The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
(The Chairman of Committees.)233B. O'Neill of Bengarve;L. Peston,L. Maxton,Bp. Manchester,L. King of Bridgwater,L. Kalms,B. Howe of Idlicote,L. Holme of Cheltenham,B. Gibson of Market Rasen,(Chairman),L. Fowler (Chairman),B. Bonham-Carter of Yarnbury,L. Armstrong of Ilminster,
B. O'Neill of Bengarve;L. Peston,L. Maxton,Bp. Manchester,L. King of Bridgwater,L. Kalms,B. Howe of Idlicote,L. Holme of Cheltenham,B. Gibson of Market Rasen,(Chairman),L. Fowler (Chairman),B. Bonham-Carter of Yarnbury,L. Armstrong of Ilminster,: My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(The Chairman of Committees.)233B. O'Neill of Bengarve;L. Peston,L. Maxton,Bp. Manchester,L. King of Bridgwater,L. Kalms,B. Howe of Idlicote,L. Holme of Cheltenham,B. Gibson of Market Rasen,(Chairman),L. Fowler (Chairman),B. Bonham-Carter of Yarnbury,L. Armstrong of Ilminster,
B. O'Neill of Bengarve;L. Peston,L. Maxton,Bp. Manchester,L. King of Bridgwater,L. Kalms,B. Howe of Idlicote,L. Holme of Cheltenham,B. Gibson of Market Rasen,(Chairman),L. Fowler (Chairman),B. Bonham-Carter of Yarnbury,L. Armstrong of Ilminster,The Chairman of Committees
: My Lords, I should like a point of clarification before the Minister sits down. The rules may not be exactly the same for a farmer north of the Border as they are down here, but I understood at my end that temporary grassland was land that had been in crop for four years before the introduction of the IACS scheme, which I believe was in about 1996. There may be an anomaly: people with farms that were in arable crop in 1991, but have never been so since, may suffer from this classification of "temporary grassland".The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, in view of the fact that the Minister has not mentioned the origin of this controversy, does she not feel that Britain is in a very strong position in this matter, given that St Patrick was born an Englishman and not an Irishman?Lord Molyneaux of Killead
245: My Lords, perhaps I may declare an interest as a former vice-chairman of the BBC and welcome the Statement that my noble friend Lord McIntosh has repeated this afternoon. I welcome in particular the decision to renew the charter. Unlike the Opposition. I agree that 10 years seems to be—always has been and, I am sure, will be now—an appropriate time for that renewal.245Lord Barnett
301WA 218.Official Report,"Employment in the post of directors of Waterways Ireland is likely to be subject to the law of the United Kingdom".—[WA 218.Official Report,300Official Report,"Unified pressure from north and south is now necessary to ensure that we either manage to get a way forward involving all political parties, or find a different way forward".—[Official Report,"The overwhelming view now in the whole of the island of Ireland, north and south, is there cannot be a place for Sinn Fein in an inclusive government in Northern Ireland unless there is a complete end to all forms of paramilitary activity and criminality by the IRA".299: My Lords, I thank the Minister for outlining the order. We have reached a turning point in Northern Ireland's political process and if the situation is not urgently addressed, the great momentum for democratic government that the signing of the Belfast agreement epitomised may be lost.301WA 218.Official Report,"Employment in the post of directors of Waterways Ireland is likely to be subject to the law of the United Kingdom".—[WA 218.Official Report,300Official Report,"Unified pressure from north and south is now necessary to ensure that we either manage to get a way forward involving all political parties, or find a different way forward".—[Official Report,"The overwhelming view now in the whole of the island of Ireland, north and south, is there cannot be a place for Sinn Fein in an inclusive government in Northern Ireland unless there is a complete end to all forms of paramilitary activity and criminality by the IRA".299Lord Laird
314: My Lords, while acknowledging the words of the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran, and the noble Baroness, Lady Blood, and accepting that it is a very lengthy document and there may be a lot of stuff in it that we perhaps do not fully understand, I too would wish to welcome the existence of this order and support it wholeheartedly.314Lord Laird
305: My Lords, I thank the Minister for giving way. I am not sure what has happened here. I did not raise the issue of the location of Waterways Ireland in Enniskillen. I said it was a fact that the headquarters is in Enniskillen, so therefore, as part of the United Kingdom, one has to assume that the legislation for people who work in Enniskillen is UK legislation. Will the Minister confirm that?305Lord Laird
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for outlining the order. Like other noble Lords I welcome this order, which is designed to extend the lifespan of existing district policing partnerships beyond the forthcoming election period, although the long-term beneficial impact of DPPs is yet to be totally evaluated.Lord Laird
: My Lords, I remind the Minister that, over the years, the BBC board of governors has included the chairmen of the Broadcasting Councils for Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Can the Minister assure me that the trust will also have representatives from the Northern Ireland, Welsh and Scottish areas?Lord Roberts of Llandudno
302: My Lords, this order extends the Order in Council for another six months, for the obvious reason that devolution has not taken place on the basis of the Belfast agreement, nor is it likely to. That is the problem. I agree with the spokesman for the Liberal Democrats that direct rule will be required for a very long period in the present circumstances.302Lord Kilclooney
303: My Lords, I am interested in the explanation given, but I am comforted more by what the Liberal Democrats said—that in future they will actually oppose these Orders in Council and not simply criticise them and then not oppose them. I believe that the time has come when Orders in Council must be opposed in Parliament.303Lord Kilclooney
: My Lords, I particularly welcome the order; it is common sense. I thank the Minister and the spokespersons for both Her Majesty's Opposition and the Liberal Democrats for their tributes to the members of the district policing partnerships. I am a member of the Northern Ireland Policing Board. We have heard today that, yet again, another member has been intimidated, in the Newry area. That goes on almost regularly. Some members are showing great courage and making a genuine effort to make policing work in Northern Ireland in a manner acceptable to all communities there. They should be supported; the Government's support is much appreciated.Lord Kilclooney
310: My Lords, the noble Baroness says that elected members will continue to serve on DPPs.
310Lord Kilclooney
: My Lords, I wonder if I could be helpful on this matter, without concentrating on the individual involved. We do not simply use the United Kingdom's employment legislation—there is separate legislation for Northern Ireland, which includes fair employment legislation. I will not ask the Minister for a reply now, but perhaps she could let me know in writing if the fair employment legislation in Northern Ireland applies to all employees within these north-south bodies.Lord Kilclooney
(Lord Whitty.)[7th Report from the Joint Committee and 9th Report from the Merits Committee]316ex officioex officio315[7th Report from the Joint Committee and 9th Report from the Merits Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 26 January be approved (Lord Whitty.)[7th Report from the Joint Committee and 9th Report from the Merits Committee]316ex officioex officio315[7th Report from the Joint Committee and 9th Report from the Merits Committee].The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: My Lords, once the authority is established in April it will begin to send out information to labour providers and users of seasonal and casual labour, so the information will start to go out early. Clearly there is a big communications problem; we do not know precisely how many labour providers operate in the market and where they operate at a given time. There is a problem of communication as well as of setting up the administration. We should be able to set up the administration so that licences are issued within a year or so of the board being established and the system can start from there, but it will not catch everyone immediately.Lord Whitty
324323322: My Lords, I am thankful for the support for the regulations, for the principle of the Act and the establishment of the authority that has been shown on all sides of the House. That consensus is appreciated—indeed, it is necessary to make the Act work—and reflects the view of all respectable elements within the industry.324323322Lord Whitty
325: My Lords, the information can go out on the Act's basic provisions, but it is the authority's job to decide exactly how the licensing system is going to work; for example, what kind of checks farmers and others using labour would have to go through. That detail would be for the authority to communicate.325Lord Whitty
330329: My Lords, I thank noble Lords opposite. The noble Baroness ranged rather widely away from the order against which she was praying. I shall not be able to answer all her points tonight. I will deal separately with those that I can by correspondence or by talking to her.330329Lord Whitty
: Yes, my Lords, the rules in Scotland are different. However, if land has already been classified as temporary grassland, the presumption is that the set-aside rules would apply. The issue is where land which anybody would regard as permanent pasture may have been disrupted relatively recently before the reference period and therefore there is dubiety about whether it is temporary grassland or permanent pasture. I suspect that there will be difficult cases, both north and south of the Border, in that respect. I am afraid that the noble Duke will have to address any more detailed points on that to the Scottish authorities.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, this confirms that the basic definition of permanent pasture and temporary grassland is the same throughout the United Kingdom. The payment system and the requirements on set-aside are different in Scotland but the definition will be the same. What the land was used for prior to the original IACS, pre-1992, is not relevant; it is where the land in the reference period for this scheme was already classified as temporary grassland.Lord Whitty
340339: My Lords, while I do not entirely thank the noble Baroness, Lady Wilcox, for raising this issue, I am grateful that she is here tonight and in reasonably good voice. We have had an interesting debate.340339Lord Whitty
: I thank both Front-Bench Members for their support.Lord Whitty
(Lord Whitty.)[8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee]343vires342[8th report from the Regulatory Reform Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulatory reform order laid before the House on 24 January be approved. (Lord Whitty.)[8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee]343vires342[8th report from the Regulatory Reform Committee].Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I, too, congratulate the Government on the initiative yesterday; it is much appreciated. Does the Minister agree with me that at this crucial time it is important to offer not criticism to either party but support and encouragement to both? At the end of the day it is the Israelis and the Palestinians who have to agree between them. Criticism of either is unlikely to be helpful in that process.Lord Turnberg
: My Lords, I, too, welcome the Statement and the fact that the Government are proposing a strong and independent BBC. At the risk of repetition, could the Minister reassure the House that when the wider place of public service broadcasting is debated, it will not just be the BBC's public service broadcasting which is considered? For instance, 33 per cent of ITV's output at present is public service broadcasting. That is currently—not seven or 10 years ahead—under strain and, to some extent, under threat. Yet that is a massive part of public service broadcasting in this country.Lord Bragg
: My Lords, I add my congratulations to the Government and to the Minister on producing these regulations. In this regard, will the news of these regulations be sent to all embassies, given that the impetus for their introduction came from the tragedy in Morecambe Bay, which affected people from overseas? Will that be possible? Will the regulations also help to regulate in a better way the people who attempt to come here illegally?Lord Chan
: My Lords, I am not clear from the Minister's answers whether she is saying that the Government will match the £300 million or £400 million. The Prime Minister and other Ministers gave a clear commitment at the time. Will the noble Baroness make it clear to the House that the Government will be providing at least £300 million?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
228: My Lords, will the noble Baroness lean on the Disasters Emergency Committee? The
228Lord Naseby
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Naseby
: My Lords, is the noble Baroness aware that her Answer goes halfway to answering the Question I asked? Is she further aware that the amount collected by the British public is now close to £400 million, and that, if I am correct, the Government agreed to match that figure? That being the case, do the British public not have a right to know to which country the money has gone, how much has gone to each country, that all the money raised will go to the countries affected, and, not least, that the smaller countries, such as the Maldives, will get their fair share?Lord Naseby
: He heard the Statement!Lord Crickhowell
246: My Lords, I welcome the Statement, particularly what was said about the trust model, which seems a sensible way forward, and about competition. However, in the course of her fairly long response, my noble friend Lady Buscombe made a particularly important point when she asked how we
246Lord Crickhowell
334"Last year, the Government announced a ban on UK pair trawlers operating within 12 miles of the UK coast. As very little trawling takes place within those 12 miles, and most of the fishing is done by French boats, Greenpeace argued at the time that this move would achieve 'nothing"'.: My Lords, I support my noble friend Lady Wilcox and agree with her on three matters. Unilateral action on a very small fishery is most unfair when competition from France, under Annex 1 of Council resolution 2371/2002, has access rights in the six to 12 mile limit. Greenpeace has sent me some briefing on this subject, which I quote:
334"Last year, the Government announced a ban on UK pair trawlers operating within 12 miles of the UK coast. As very little trawling takes place within those 12 miles, and most of the fishing is done by French boats, Greenpeace argued at the time that this move would achieve 'nothing"'.Viscount Ullswater
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that St Patrick is historically credited with having driven most of the snakes from Ireland? Is it not possible that the attendance of these gentlemen at this sacred function will enable him to continue his work?Lord St John of Fawsley
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has described a major part of Lieutenant General Ward's role and function. Will she also comment on the need for very close security co-ordination as regards the withdrawal from Gaza?Lord Hylton
249: My Lords, is it not clear that the standards and position of the BBC are pre-eminent in the whole world? It is the epitome of public service
249Lord Sheldon
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Skidelsky
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that reply. Like everyone else in this House, I welcome the Prime Minister's initiative in convening yesterday's London conference. But does she not agree that the best way to strengthen the Palestinian Authority is evidence of tangible progress towards the creation of a viable Palestinian state, free of Israeli occupation? What follow-up steps do the Government propose to take to realise that goal?Lord Skidelsky
: My Lords, will the Government remove any funds for development from countries that are not affected by the tsunami to boost funds in the affected region?Lord Swinfen
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that reply, although I am somewhat less than happy with it. Given that both the Irish and the British Governments accept that Sinn Fein/IRA are indivisible and are an organised crime machine, is it not right for Her Majesty's Government to make representation at the highest level regarding possible White House invitations on St Patrick's Day to that organisation? Furthermore, what action are Her Majesty's Government taking to address the IRA/ Sinn Fein funding streams from the United States?Lord Glentoran
294: My Lords, I have listened to what the noble Lord, Lord Smith, has said about his amendment. Your Lordships will not be surprised to know that I had discussions and thoughts about this before coming in today.294Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for giving way. Other noble Lords and Government Ministers will know that the Official Opposition, at times with the Liberal Democrats and at times on our own, have worked extremely hard with whatever means we know to try to improve the situation that the noble Lord, Lord Kilclooney, is talking about. I ask him to think about maybe correcting his last statement.Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for bringing forward the order. She is right that we are all sad and sorry that it is necessary and the number of times that it has had to be renewed. I wonder optimistically if perhaps the reason that we are where we are now will evolve into being the bursting of the abscess that has been the core of evil hidden under a cloak of parliamentary and pseudo-politics. We can only hope that from this low point we can move forward to better things. I support the order.Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, once again I thank the noble Baroness for such a clear explanation of what the Government are proposing to do with this order. I should like first to associate myself with her comments about members who, in certain parts, have served on DPPs at considerable risk to themselves, and who indeed have been threatened and attacked.Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, I thank the noble Baroness for that. The order does a lot of good administrative tidying up. I am not an expert on policing but it seems that the DPPs at this stage are a great success. I believe that there are difficulties in filling all the places on DPPs. That is not altogether surprising, for reasons that I have already given. Extending the life of DPPs to allow a six-month gap between the election and reappointment of the next DPP is eminently sensible. I support the order.Lord Glentoran
313: My Lords, I again thank the noble Baroness, Lady Farrington of Ribbleton, for that clear explanation.313Lord Glentoran
242: My Lords, like the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, I welcome the commitment to a strong BBC that is independent of government. I suspect that tucked away in the Statement that has just been delivered, there are a few fundamental differences that will be teased out in the weeks and months ahead.242Lord McNally
(Lord Smith of Clifton.)"Despite extensive publicity, including television advertising aimed at encouraging people to vote early in the day, some Presiding Officers reported having to turn voters away at the close of poll. Frustration with these delays led to reported irregularities, where voters were allowed to cast their votes after the official closing time of 10pm. In one such case, in the constituency of Fermanagh and South Tyrone, an election petition has now been brought by the defeated Ulster Unionist candidate. Concerns were also raised over the safety of staff and security of polling stations after two police officers and an elector were injured … in a polling station shortly before it closed".293"This year, for the first time, the election in Northern Ireland consisted of a synchronised poll, combining the Westminster general election with elections to the 26 district councils. Local elections held under the single transferable vote (STV) system, have traditionally taken place on a different day than a
293Election 2001: The Official Results292rose to move, as an amendment to the Motion, at end to insert "but this House regrets that Her Majesty's Government did not take full account of the concerns expressed by the Electoral Commission about polling for more than one election using different voting systems taking place on the same day."(Lord Smith of Clifton.)"Despite extensive publicity, including television advertising aimed at encouraging people to vote early in the day, some Presiding Officers reported having to turn voters away at the close of poll. Frustration with these delays led to reported irregularities, where voters were allowed to cast their votes after the official closing time of 10pm. In one such case, in the constituency of Fermanagh and South Tyrone, an election petition has now been brought by the defeated Ulster Unionist candidate. Concerns were also raised over the safety of staff and security of polling stations after two police officers and an elector were injured … in a polling station shortly before it closed".293"This year, for the first time, the election in Northern Ireland consisted of a synchronised poll, combining the Westminster general election with elections to the 26 district councils. Local elections held under the single transferable vote (STV) system, have traditionally taken place on a different day than a
293Election 2001: The Official Results292Lord Smith of Clifton
298: I thank the Minister for explaining the purposes of the order, which is becoming a tedious and monotonous regular feature of the business of your Lordships' House. We are frustrated that two and a half years after the Assembly was suspended, there is still no prospect of restoring devolution to Northern Ireland and I am afraid that we are in for a protracted period of direct rule.298Lord Smith of Clifton
296: My Lords, as always the Minister is charm itself and I congratulate her. However, I am not wholly convinced by her assurances; nor do I think that she has answered satisfactorily my noble
296Lord Smith of Clifton
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that, although the decision rests with the White House, it would be giving the right sort signal if it indicated that Sinn Fein would not be welcome on St Patrick's Day? I was reassured to hear her say that talks are ongoing about the outside funding of political parties in Northern Ireland. However, we need to put our foot on the gas as far as that matter is concerned, rather than allow it simply to drift along the normal diplomatic channels.Lord Smith of Clifton
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Farrington of Ribbleton, urged us to look at striking a balance and getting it right. I believe that these proposals go some way towards that, but of course each situation is different. The implementation needs to be carefully monitored. It obviously depends on the individual child's specific and special educational needs. Let us hope that this legislation will help those with and without statements, as well as other children, to realise their full potential.Baroness Harris of Richmond
308: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Baroness for bringing forward the order. I associate these Benches with the remarks made about DPP members and their bravery in the very difficult times in the past. We hope that in the future they will continue to flourish. We welcome the order; its provisions are very sensible and right.308Baroness Harris of Richmond
: Yes, my Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Hylton, is absolutely right. Part of the conclusion of yesterday's meeting was a commitment to ensure that there would be, certainly from the Palestinian Authority's point of view, co-ordination with the Israeli Government during that period of disengagement from Gaza and the West Bank.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, as the noble Baroness, Lady Northover, will know, that international conference is very much part of the road map. I am sure that all noble Lords would agree that getting back to the road map, of which yesterday's conference was a part—through capacity building for the Palestinian Authority—is very important. We all want that international conference, but before that we want to see a pledging conference from yesterday's meeting in London so that we can assist the Palestinian Authority even further.Baroness Crawley
229: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Skidelsky, for his words of encouragement and congratulations to the Prime Minister, who, I believe, achieved a very important staging post yesterday in the Middle East peace process. The noble Lord asks how we will tackle what he sees as the key problems still outstanding. I agree that there have been many obstacles, put forward on both sides, to progress. I certainly agree that settlement expansion and heavy-handed Israeli defence force action make progress more difficult. We continue to make those points to the Israeli Government and to urge them to honour the settlements freeze to which they committed themselves in the road map.229Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the focus of the London meeting was to help the Palestinian leadership to strengthen the institutions of the Palestinian Authority. The meeting is part of a longer-term process of international support for the Palestinians in helping both sides to return to the road map. The road map remains the international community's agreed path towards a lasting negotiated settlement to the Israel-Palestine conflict.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I absolutely agree. I hope that the noble Lord sees in yesterday's London meeting the efforts by the international community to be even-handed with both sides in the Middle East peace process. I take this opportunity at the Dispatch Box to welcome, for instance, the disengagement plans put forward by Israel.Baroness Crawley
230: My Lords, again, I thank noble Lords for their words of congratulation on yesterday's conference. Lieutenant General Ward's mandate covers forming a co-ordinating group to oversee the restructuring and retraining of the Palestinian security services. The noble Lord will
230Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, how much money has been committed in existing schemes, and what proportion would that leave out of the £300 million that the Government have promised?Baroness Byford
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for giving way. He is quite right. The sadness is that we should need regulation to curtail this sort of activity in the first place. It is a great sadness.Baroness Byford
"at least one half of the representative members",317: My Lords, I thank the Minister for introducing so fully these draft regulations. Before I comment any further, perhaps I may remind the House of my interest as president of Concordia, a charity which places thousands of young people and students in placements both in the UK and internationally. In the past the students have usually studied farming-related topics, which is why they seek to come here. These students are well recognised and are certainly not the kind of workers which these regulations seek to address. However, as the Minister pointed out, some gangmasters take their responsibilities very seriously and ensure that their employees are well looked after. I appreciate that the Act and these regulations in no way seek to do them down."at least one half of the representative members",317Baroness Byford
(Baroness Byford.)[6th Report from the Merits Committee.]327326[6th Report from the Merits Committee]. rose to move to resolve, That this House calls on Her Majesty's Government to revoke the regulations laid before the House on 21 December 2004 (SI 2004/3385) (Baroness Byford.)[6th Report from the Merits Committee.]327326[6th Report from the Merits Committee].Baroness Byford
: My Lords, before the Minister sits down, he has rightly indicated that the scheme will take some time to set up. Can he tell us what the Government are doing to ensure that no bad practices are continuing between now and then; and whose responsibility it is? If he cannot answer now, I am happy for him to write to me. My fear is that, as he indicated, it would be autumn before it was established and maybe into next year before the scheme was up and running. I would be grateful for some guidance.Baroness Byford
344: My Lords, I thank the Minister for going through the explanation so fully. We support the order. The Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee expressed concern about the continuity of employment. I presume from what the Minister has said that he is happy that those concerns have been addressed. As he said, it is undesirable to have different terms and conditions of employment for people who work alongside each other. When Defra was formed, employees from the DETR and Defra experienced difficulties in that respect. If the Minister
344Baroness Byford
338337"likely to be of interest to the House, and that they may imperfectly achieve their policy objectives"."these orders are drawn to the special attention of the House on the grounds that they give rise to issues of public policy"—: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for bringing forward this very important issue. Had she not done so, I would have done so myself. With her great expertise and knowledge of this topic I am doubly grateful. I am even more grateful as for the past two weeks she has been very unwell, and she has nearly lost her voice. We are very pleased to see her in her place, although I am not so sure that the Minister will be so thrilled with her moving the Motion.338337"likely to be of interest to the House, and that they may imperfectly achieve their policy objectives"."these orders are drawn to the special attention of the House on the grounds that they give rise to issues of public policy"—Baroness Byford
331: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for his response to my Motion, and to the
331Baroness Byford
: My Lords, does the noble Lord wish to come back?Baroness Byford
: My Lords, I also welcome the Green Paper and what noble Lords on all sides of the House have said about the BBC being a great institution in British life. The BBC is quite correctly being told to ditch its obsession with TV ratings and focus on high-quality public service programming. Can the Minister assure the House that the Government will not subsequently listen to those who attack the BBC's right to the licence fee because it is no longer aggressively fighting for ratings, a consequence of which is that its viewing figures will fall?Baroness Bonham-Carter of Yarnbury
(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee].297[9th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 3 February be approved (Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee].297[9th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
304: My Lords, I first place on record that there is no pressure on any noble Lord to speed things up tonight. It has just gone 20 past 7. I am sorry if the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Clifton, perceived that there was. It most certainly is not the case.304Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
295: My Lords, I would like to thank noble Lords who have spoken. I begin with the last point raised by the noble Lord, Lord Shutt. My understanding of the terms of reference on regulatory impact assessment does not
295Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, I am grateful to noble Lords who have given their support. I take on board the concern that it is the sort of issue that needs very careful consideration. I reiterate that there was a great deal of consultation.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: I am sorry, my Lords; if I did not say "only" clearly enough, I should have done. I correct the noble Lord.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
"I have made it clear that, as a democrat, if people turn up with a mandate, and if that mandate does not depend on criminality, does not depend on armed revolt and rebellion … I would face up to the fact that I would have to do business with them.": My Lords, I would be delighted to do exactly what the noble Lord, Lord Kilclooney, asked."I have made it clear that, as a democrat, if people turn up with a mandate, and if that mandate does not depend on criminality, does not depend on armed revolt and rebellion … I would face up to the fact that I would have to do business with them."Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)307rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 21 February be approved.(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)307Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, the sum total of the comments of the noble Lord, Lord Laird, create an impression that positions were not being filled correctly in that organisation.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, my understanding, from the information in front of me, is that that is the position. Were I wrong, I would of course want to correct that immediately.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)312311rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 9 February be approved.(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)312311Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
: My Lords, I thank noble Lords on all sides. A very constructive approach has been taken all round the House to the debate on this order. I apologise if my voice was not clear enough; I shall confirm, so that nobody is in any doubt, that the position of chairman is restricted to elected members. Elected members will continue to serve during the transition period. The Northern Ireland Office intends to publish a code on completion of the order's parliamentary process and prior to the launch of the appointment competition for the independent DPP members. The timing of the launch of the competition is a matter for the board but it is likely to take place in the next couple of months.Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)[7th Report from the Joint Committee].[7th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 20 January be approved (Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)[7th Report from the Joint Committee].[7th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
(Baroness Wilcox.)Hansard"We question again whether DEFRA's decision in the case of the 2004 Order, to proceed with a national prohibition before agreement at the European level, is an effective approach".333"However, we question whether the policy being pursued by DEFRA through this Order will be effective in securing such protection since, as the RIA indicates, overall bycatch levels from the French fishery effort may well be higher than levels resulting
333We understand the importance of safeguarding the marine environment, including protecting dolphins against the damage caused by bycatch"."Paragraph 29 of the RIA summarises the results of a consultation process on the proposals, which was carried out over a three-week period in October and November 2004. It makes it clear that a number of objections have been raised to the action being pursued by DEFRA, including that 'many stakeholders are concerned that these measures are discriminatory as French and offshore fishery will continue where most cetacean bycatch is seen'."the option recommended, namely to take action on a UK basis, and then approach the European Commission to make the prohibition … DEFRA notes that in July 2004 it put the case to the Commission for the use of emergency powers for the closure the offshore pair trawl fishery for bass, and that the Commission did not accept this case. At paragraph 18, DEFRA states that, if the Commission is not persuaded by a new approach to agree that the prohibition be extended to other Member states. DEFRA 'would continue with the introduction of measures to apply to UK vessels only'"."These orders are drawn to the special attention of the House on the grounds that they give rise to issues of public policy likely to be of interest to the House, and that they may imperfectly achieve their policy objectives".332[8th Report from the Merits Committee].rose to move to resolve, That this House calls on Her Majesty's Government to revoke the order laid before the House on 23 December 2004 (SI 2004/3397). (Baroness Wilcox.)Hansard"We question again whether DEFRA's decision in the case of the 2004 Order, to proceed with a national prohibition before agreement at the European level, is an effective approach".333"However, we question whether the policy being pursued by DEFRA through this Order will be effective in securing such protection since, as the RIA indicates, overall bycatch levels from the French fishery effort may well be higher than levels resulting
333We understand the importance of safeguarding the marine environment, including protecting dolphins against the damage caused by bycatch"."Paragraph 29 of the RIA summarises the results of a consultation process on the proposals, which was carried out over a three-week period in October and November 2004. It makes it clear that a number of objections have been raised to the action being pursued by DEFRA, including that 'many stakeholders are concerned that these measures are discriminatory as French and offshore fishery will continue where most cetacean bycatch is seen'."the option recommended, namely to take action on a UK basis, and then approach the European Commission to make the prohibition … DEFRA notes that in July 2004 it put the case to the Commission for the use of emergency powers for the closure the offshore pair trawl fishery for bass, and that the Commission did not accept this case. At paragraph 18, DEFRA states that, if the Commission is not persuaded by a new approach to agree that the prohibition be extended to other Member states. DEFRA 'would continue with the introduction of measures to apply to UK vessels only'"."These orders are drawn to the special attention of the House on the grounds that they give rise to issues of public policy likely to be of interest to the House, and that they may imperfectly achieve their policy objectives".332[8th Report from the Merits Committee].Baroness Wilcox
341: My Lords, I am grateful to those who have joined in this debate, particularly my noble friend Lord Ullswater. I realised only halfway through his speech that the noble Viscount was on the Merits Committee. I had not really looked to see who was on the committee, although I knew it was cross-party, which I found to be very favourable. I want to thank my noble friend for a point he made. I had not picked
341Baroness Wilcox
: My Lords, we, too, welcome the meeting on the Palestinian Authority. However, does the noble Baroness agree that we now need a full-scale peace conference including both Israelis and Palestinians? The Foreign Secretary seemed to indicate support for that. When might we expect such a conference?Baroness Northover
: My Lords, what help is the UK now able to give to Indonesia, bearing in mind that many foreign aid workers are being turned away? In particular, is the noble Baroness aware that all the staff at the Banda Aceh hospital were killed in the disaster? Is there anything we can do to support distance learning to enable accelerated training at the Banda Aceh medical college?Baroness Northover
: My Lords, my understanding is that no political parties will be invited this year to the St Patrick's Day event in Washington. That is not at all a bad thing, because it leaves an opening for the real people from the community in Northern Ireland, who are making the real difference, to go to these events.Baroness Blood
309: My Lords, I want to associate myself with the Minister and other noble Lords who have paid tribute to the setting up of the DPPs. When I first came to this House, there were community liaison police committees in Northern Ireland. I could not understand why the Government wanted to change them as they worked so well, but I now see the value of DPPs. I add my name to the tributes to members. I know personally a few members who work under great stress and threat. In a strange way the threat seems to make them all the more determined; that is good for Northern Ireland.309Baroness Blood
: My Lords, I had not intended to speak. I just want to say how delighted I am that at last we have got something for the children of Northern Ireland. Back in Northern Ireland, we struggled to get ourselves included in the legislation going through this House. Currently there are a number of issues I am trying to get our Ministers at home to move on, so I am thoroughly delighted with this. I was at a meeting on Monday morning with folk from south-east Belfast who were talking about special needs. They could not wait to have this.Baroness Blood
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].: My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.).[8th Report from the Joint Committee]: My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.).[8th Report from the Joint Committee]Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee].234: My Lords, I beg to move the third Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee].234Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee].: My Lords, I beg to move the fourth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Hollis of Heigham
241240239A Strong BBC, Independent of Government.: My Lords, I thank the Minister for repeating the Statement and I welcome at long last the publication of the Green Paper reviewing the BBC's Royal Charter, entitled 241240239A Strong BBC, Independent of Government.Baroness Buscombe
"unreasonable diminution of living and working amenity and environment of interested parties living in the vicinity of the premises",: My Lords, will the Minister not accept that one of the problems with his response to the Question asked by the noble Lord, Lord Phillips of Sudbury, is that guidance notes cannot change the legal meaning of "public nuisance"?"unreasonable diminution of living and working amenity and environment of interested parties living in the vicinity of the premises",Baroness Buscombe
224: My Lords, as this Question is about possible amendments to the Act, is
224Baroness Gardner of Parkes
226: My Lords, Ministers have made a number of statements to Parliament, the media and the public about the United Kingdom's response to the Indian Ocean earthquake tsunami disaster. The Department for International Development has regularly reported details of its response through its website. My right honourable friend the Secretary of State for International Development is
226The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, Indonesia's needs are enormous, but I am pleased to be able to tell the noble Baroness that immediate assistance has now reached most areas. Transitional and permanent shelters remain an issue of critical concern, but comprehensive food distribution and health surveillance systems have been established.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, all the information that the noble Lord, Lord Naseby, is requesting with regard to the Government's contribution is on the website. It is also available to Members of Parliament through our regular updating. I recognise that members of the public may be interested in individual countries, which is part of the reason my right honourable friend and the Minister in the Department for International Development have been keeping members of the public from particular communities up to date with what is happening in Sri Lanka, Indonesia and elsewhere.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I think that the noble Baroness does not understand the point that I am making. When the initial humanitarian needs were made clear, the UN, for example, had a flash appeal, which is now 95 per cent funded. We have given some £75 million to the humanitarian effort. We have not made any allocation for longer-term reconstruction efforts because, in our view, we need to wait for the result of the needs assessment being carried out by the World Bank and the IMF before making that kind of decision.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, that is absolutely right, but we must recognise that the amount of money given to the Disasters Emergency Committee is substantial, so it will take time to allocate it. As the noble Lord knows, the committee has made a very clear commitment that only 2 per cent of the resources will be spent on administration. It meets regularly; indeed, it meets colleagues in the Department for International Development fortnightly and will meet my right honourable friend the Secretary of State later this month to talk through those issues. I am absolutely confident that it will keep the British people involved and informed, given the unprecedented nature of the response.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, as I said in response to the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth, we have not anticipated that we will be reprogramming any of the money that we have currently programmed to countries in southeast Asia. A number of countries have put out their response to the tsunami. They have not only said how much they have given in emergency relief but they have reprogrammed current budgets. We have not done that. That decision will not be taken until we see the needs assessment later this month and look again at what we think countries will need.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I shall repeat what I said, and it remains the case. The Government said at an earlier stage that we would match the amount. We have established new money for emergency relief and we have made it absolutely clear that, once the needs assessments are complete, we will look at the longer-term reconstruction efforts. That is in addition to, and completely separate from, the programmed budgets we already have in the affected countries. So I am not able to say from the Dispatch Box that we will simply match the amount, because we may well go beyond it.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, that is certainly the speculation in the newspapers that I have read. I understand that the US Administration want to focus on civic duty and civic renewal.Baroness Amos
232: My Lords, I recognise the concerns of the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Clifton, about funding. The noble Lord has made his concerns known both informally and formally in the Chamber. On his
232Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I think that that question also is probably best left unanswered. However, I repeat the point that I made earlier. It is our view that it is a matter for the United States Administration. I understand that they will make an announcement on it shortly. The noble Lord may wish to look at some of the reports in the Irish newspapers today which speculate about who may or may not be invited to the United States.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I think it would be much better—in the vernacular, as it were—for me not to go there.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Glentoran, is right. The Government have said on a number of occasions, as indeed have I, that the IRA and Sinn Fein are inextricably linked. But possible White House invitations are a matter for the US Administration, although, as I said in my opening Answer, we have a regular dialogue with the United States Administration on Northern Ireland at a range of levels.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, we have a regular dialogue with the United States Administration on a range of issues relating to Northern Ireland. During those exchanges, we have made it clear that the decision on who should attend the White House on 17 March is a matter for the US Administration alone.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, in reply to the noble Baroness, Lady Rendell, my noble and learned friend mentioned that some investigations were ongoing under the 2003 Act. Is he able to indicate how many such investigations there are?Lord Acton
: My Lords, I have been in Parliament for nearly 60 years, in both Houses, and never before have I witnessed the way in which the Government are conducting this Bill of some national importance.Lord Renton
: Oh!Noble Lords
373372: I declare my interest as the current independent reviewer of the detention provisions under Part 4 of the 2001 Act. From that viewpoint, I thought it wrong to intervene at Second Reading of the Bill. However, it may be of assistance to the Committee if, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the amendments, I make a few comments in the form of questions.373372Lord Carlile of Berriew
: Yes, I understand and I anticipated that that point might be made, which brings me to my next point. If the application were made to the district judge in what is not a court of record, would providing an immediate right of appeal to a superior court of record be workable? It seems to me that a High Court judge would exercise a normal, legitimate judicial function, and not the function of a Minister. For that to be successful, I would very respectfully suggest to the Lord Chancellor and to the Government that one might consider removing this perhaps slightly illusory distinction between judicial review and a review on the merits.Lord Carlile of Berriew
374ex parte: I am suggesting something that is possibly better than the noble Earl has suggested: that the examining magistrate should hear the application—it may be 374ex parteLord Carlile of Berriew
: Order!Noble Lords
: No!Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
: The Government are introducing a special interrogation regime for suspected terrorists. That is why my noble friend is quite right to say that in this circumstance—never mind what happens usually—this amendment ought to be on the face of the Bill.Lord Campbell of Alloway
: I had intended to support these amendments, but got lost in the arrangements that were being made. I apologise for not being here when I should have been, when the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, opened. I was minded to support his amendment, and in particular I support the amendments of my noble friend Lord Kingsland.Lord Campbell of Alloway
: I have a very simple point. This derogation has been worrying me because there cannot be a derogation in escrow. The derogation operates under Article 15 only if the European Court of Human Rights grants it. How on earth can the Government move with a derogation that has no effect until it has been granted by the court? Perhaps I have got it wrong, but it is worrying me.Lord Campbell of Alloway
385Supporting Young People To Achieve,384: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.385Supporting Young People To Achieve,384The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)388387386: My Lords, the educational maintenance allowance is paid directly to them, in addition to the child benefit and child tax credit paid to the parents.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)388387386Lord McIntosh of Haringey
395: My Lords, I am grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken in support of the Bill. I am particularly encouraged to hear the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, say that it should proceed with all due
395Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I am reluctant to have a debate on the procedures of the House of Commons, although I appreciate the noble Lord's motive if it were to affect the quality of the legislation that comes to us. But as he said, it has not. It has come to us in good shape. I shall not pursue that matter further.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
"This is an exemplar of good programme management".397396: My Lords, that is helpful."This is an exemplar of good programme management".397396Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, we have debated this in this Chamber within the past week, as the noble Lord, Lord Higgins, knows. There is a trade off. Either a system is simple and is assessed only once a year—which leads to overpayment that has to be recovered—or the payment is continually reassessed. There can be different views about which is the better option, but no one can deny that they are legitimate options and that there is a trade off between them.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord for giving way. Does he really think that the proportionality protection is practical in the circumstances that we are talking about? And how could a court assess proportionality in the absence of all the information about the background?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: Would the court be entitled, then, to all the information upon which the Home Secretary reached his decision? If not, how can it make an assessment?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: Is the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor satisfied that, when he said a minute ago that this is not a criminal process, the reality is not that it actually fundamentally is? The sanctions are as severe as many criminal sanctions. The issue to which the whole business relates is the most serious form of violence. Has he been advised whether there is likely to be a finding in the European Court at Strasbourg, if it gets that far, that, on what is called autonomous meaning, this is going to be viewed as a criminal procedure, therefore breaching criminal safeguards in terms of standards of proof?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I hope that the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, is going to move his Amendment No. 39.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
459: I strongly support Amendment No. 39, which was so insidiously moved by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, and Amendments Nos. 41 and 40. Clause 1(8) is crucial. The definition of terrorism-related activity runs throughout the Bill and ensuring that it is appropriate is of the first magnitude.459Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord for addressing my point head on. Perhaps I may make life a little more difficult for him by citing a journalist working for a minority paper—I shall not say which one—that felt vulnerable under the prevailing circumstances. Would it not then be possible for a vindictive Home Secretary—we do not have one, but we have to look at circumstances that we do not want to contemplate—to act under the definitions set out in subsection (8)?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: No, they are not.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: Without intent, no.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord. Can he sort out some confusion in my mind? If the police want to search my premises or my papers—nothing to do with liberty—they have to get a warrant from a magistrate. I do not understand why a similar safeguard does not apply to control orders that affect basic rights and freedoms, but not the right to liberty. Why should there not be at least the initial safeguard of having to go to a judicial officer at that stage?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, as my noble friend pointed out in his supplementary question, this issue has been raised not only in the Save the Children report, but also by both the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child and the UN Human Rights Committee under two international human rights treaties. Is the noble Lord aware that they have found the United Kingdom to be in breach of its international legal obligations? Given that, why on earth are the Government now procrastinating over a proper answer to the question posed by Save the Children in its report? Is it not time to end this abuse as soon as possible, in accordance with our international legal obligations?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: For clarification, the clause as it stands, and as it is proposed to be amended, refers to obligations imposed on the individual. The impression given in the other place was that these obligations are civil obligations, such as obligations imposed under non-molestation orders in domestic cases, or the most recent anti-social behaviour orders. First, is that the area we are in?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
380: I have very great difficulty in knowing whether to oppose or support the main government amendment, for the simple reason that I am against control orders altogether. I am against the Bill as it stands, as I do not find it acceptable that the Secretary of State should deprive a British citizen—or indeed anyone within the jurisdiction—of his liberty without a trial, as proposed in Clause 2. I find it equally unacceptable that he should be able to restrict the liberty of a British citizen without a trial as proposed in Clause 1.380Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: I am very grateful to the noble Lord for giving way. Is there not all the difference in the world between an extension of time granted by a magistrate or district judge and indefinite detention as proposed in this Bill?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
408: The problem with that analysis is that, as recently as March 2004, the Government took a different view that it would not be justifiable to extend these powers to British subjects. The powers were taken in 2001 because it was thought to be easy to do so under the immigration procedures.
408Lord Lloyd of Berwick
441: The noble Baroness knows that I am keen to see the new offence put on the statute book. What is the time-frame for introducing it? How
441Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: The problem is that there is no offence of being a terrorist. When the person is arrested it is basic English law that he must be told for what offence or offences he is being arrested. For what offence is this man being arrested? The answer might come, "Being concerned in the preparation and instigation of an act of terrorism", but that is not an offence.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: I promise not to interrupt again.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, I have listened to the discussion and will now suggest that we should adjourn until twelve o'clock. Given that the first grouping of amendments was agreed a short while ago, that should give us all enough time.Lord Grocott
: My Lords, this is a listening Government.Lord Grocott
The Sitting was suspended from 11.45 to noon.: No, my Lords; it simply means that I have been listening to the debate. I am just anxious to make everyone happy. Another quarter of an hour might do that. I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until noon.The Sitting was suspended from 11.45 to noon.Lord Grocott
: My Lords, I can give the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, an answer to his question now. He would be grossly affronted, I think, if the House of Commons issued rules and edicts about how long we in the House of Lords should spend debating Bills. He would never have done that while he was in the House of Commons. I certainly cannot give him an answer to that question now. It would be quite improper for me to do so.Lord Grocott
: My Lords, perhaps I may offer the House a short explanation of where we are in regard to the grouping of amendments for the Prevention of Terrorism Bill. We are extremely close—by "we" I mean the usual channels and everyone with an interest in the Bill—to getting agreement on a sensible grouping of amendments, but I am afraid that we are about 10 minutes short of the deadline, which is so often the case.Lord Grocott
: My Lords, we must move on.Lord Davies of Oldham
360: First, neither I nor the Government want in any way to preclude discussion on those other amendments. Secondly, we make it clear that if the amendment in the name of my noble friend goes into the Bill it would not preclude any amendments being made to those amendments on Report or at Third Reading. We do not wish to curtail debate in any way. It seems to us convenient to put the amendment into the Bill so that there is at least clarity about what the Government propose and everything is
360Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: That seems a perfectly reasonable suggestion, if it helps noble Lords. That means that I will not move the amendment formally but may bring it back at a later stage. In that way there would not be a problem of pre-emption.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: As Members of the Committee can see, I have sympathy with both points of view. The group that we are starting with is quite big; it allows debate of the issues that the noble Earl quite legitimately wants to raise. I suggest that we get going and then see whether Members of the Committee feel that there has been a satisfactory debate about the issues that they want to raise. I understand that the noble Earl feels strongly about the matter; I was going to say that, unless noble Lords feel strongly about it, my inclination is just to start.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I think that the Committee should debate the individual amendments. I do not think for one moment that either the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, or the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, want to prevent that. I do not think that the Committee would have any difficulty debating the issues raised both by the Government's amendments and those tabled by the noble Earl. We do that regularly, particularly when one amendment pre-empts a later one. We are perfectly capable of debating an amendment that might pre-empt another one because we are good at debating the issues. With respect, I suggest that we proceed and get on with debating the actual issues.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
ex parte364(1D) Those obligations may"(1C) The obligations that may be imposed by a control order made against an individual are any obligations that the Secretary of State or (as the case may be) the court considers necessary for purposes connected with preventing or restricting involvement by that individual in terrorism-related activity.(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and(1B) The power to make a control order against an individual shall be exercisable—
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and"(1A) In this Act "control order" means an order against an individual that imposes obligations on him for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism.Page 1, line 3, leave out from beginning to "include" in line 16 and insert
(1D) Those obligations may"(1C) The obligations that may be imposed by a control order made against an individual are any obligations that the Secretary of State or (as the case may be) the court considers necessary for purposes connected with preventing or restricting involvement by that individual in terrorism-related activity.(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and(1B) The power to make a control order against an individual shall be exercisable—
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and"(1A) In this Act "control order" means an order against an individual that imposes obligations on him for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism.: moved Amendment No. 1:ex parte364(1D) Those obligations may"(1C) The obligations that may be imposed by a control order made against an individual are any obligations that the Secretary of State or (as the case may be) the court considers necessary for purposes connected with preventing or restricting involvement by that individual in terrorism-related activity.(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and(1B) The power to make a control order against an individual shall be exercisable—
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and"(1A) In this Act "control order" means an order against an individual that imposes obligations on him for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism.Page 1, line 3, leave out from beginning to "include" in line 16 and insert
(1D) Those obligations may"(1C) The obligations that may be imposed by a control order made against an individual are any obligations that the Secretary of State or (as the case may be) the court considers necessary for purposes connected with preventing or restricting involvement by that individual in terrorism-related activity.(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and(1B) The power to make a control order against an individual shall be exercisable—
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and
(b) in the case of an order imposing obligations that are or include derogating obligations, by the court on an application by the Secretary of State.(a) except in the case of an order imposing obligations that are incompatible with the individual's right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention, by the Secretary of State; and"(1A) In this Act "control order" means an order against an individual that imposes obligations on him for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Lord Falconer of Thoroton.: My Lords, I beg to move on behalf of the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland of Asthal, that the House do now resolve itself into a Committee upon the Bill.Lord Falconer of Thoroton.The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: I accept that we are concerned with Article 6, but there is a balance to be struck as to what the process involves. We submit in relation to Article 6 that under these procedures, in certain circumstances it will be appropriate not to tell the suspect of all of the information relied against him—as has already happened in relation to the SIAC process. That is not inconsistent under the current circumstances with Article 6; it is based on the decisions of the European Court. I beg to move.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: A judgment has to be made. For example, the noble Lord will know that the police can impose bail conditions that are very similar to the conditions to which we refer in the Bill. An individual is entitled to go to the magistrates' court and complain about bail conditions, if he wishes, but the police have those limited powers. It is a question of judgment about how intrusive the powers should be before the court has to make them in the first place. I believe that that is the issue raised by determining whether there should be judicial intervention beforehand, in relation to the deprivation of liberty cases, or not, although there is judicial supervision—which is the position related to in the later part. It is a question of drawing a line. Our debate should be whether we have drawn the line in the right place.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
368: Correct. If the position was that the Secretary of State thought the appropriate order was one which deprived the suspect of his liberty, he could not make that order without a derogation. He would have to derogate before he made the order. If he concludes that the right way to protect the state is by a derogating order, he can apply for such an order only once he has derogated. If, on the other hand, the order does not deprive the subject of his liberty, he does not
368Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".(A2) The Secretary of State may make a control order against an individual who is for the time being bound by a control order made by the court only if he does so—
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and
(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and"(A1) The Secretary of State may make a control order against an individual if he—
(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and
(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and: Sections 15 and 16 of the Human Rights Act 1998 allow the Secretary of State to lay an order. The derogation takes effect from the point that the order is laid. That order is subject to a resolution of both Houses of Parliament. If either House refuses to back the derogation, then it falls, but it takes effect immediately upon the laying of the order by the Secretary of State.(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".(A2) The Secretary of State may make a control order against an individual who is for the time being bound by a control order made by the court only if he does so—
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".
(a) after the court has determined that its order should be revoked".(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and
(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and"(A1) The Secretary of State may make a control order against an individual if he—
(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; and
(b) considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on that individual.366(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; andLord Falconer of Thoroton
ex parte"At the full hearing, the court may confirm the control order (with or without modifications) only if it is satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the controlled person is an individual who is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; it considers that the imposition of obligations on the controlled person is necessary for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism; it appears to the court that the risk is one arising out of, or is associated with, a public emergency in respect of which there is a … derogation",ex parte"the court may make a control order against the individual in question if it appears to the court that there is material which (if not disproved) is capable of being relied on by the court as establishing that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the imposition of obligations on that individual is necessary for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism; that the risk arises out of, or is associated with, a public emergency in respect of which there is a designated derogation … and that the obligations that there are reasonable grounds for believing should be imposed … are or include derogating obligations".365the ex parte"At the preliminary hearing—ex parte: I am explaining what the government amendments do, in order to put them in their context. I apologise for doing so at some length, but it seems to me that that is what the debate is about.ex parte"At the full hearing, the court may confirm the control order (with or without modifications) only if it is satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the controlled person is an individual who is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; it considers that the imposition of obligations on the controlled person is necessary for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism; it appears to the court that the risk is one arising out of, or is associated with, a public emergency in respect of which there is a … derogation",ex parte"the court may make a control order against the individual in question if it appears to the court that there is material which (if not disproved) is capable of being relied on by the court as establishing that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity; that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the imposition of obligations on that individual is necessary for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism; that the risk arises out of, or is associated with, a public emergency in respect of which there is a designated derogation … and that the obligations that there are reasonable grounds for believing should be imposed … are or include derogating obligations".365the ex parte"At the preliminary hearing—ex parteLord Falconer of Thoroton
367: I fully understand the point that my noble friend is making. It is very difficult to have the debate about court or non-court without first identifying the relevant provisions. If it is not helpful to the House, I shall not go on, but it seems to me to be helpful to identify the relevant provisions so that we can then have the critical debate on whether it should be the court.367Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I agree but I believe that the appropriate course is to put the whole Bill in context before coming to the critical point.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am not precluding anybody from making points on the detail of the amendment when we come to it. But to help the Committee it is appropriate to explain the basic structure of the new amendments so that people can see where they fit into the Bill and understand the role of the court at each stage. As the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, rightly said, the intention is to talk about the involvement of the court.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Since December we have had to consider what powers we think we need. The noble and learned Lord is absolutely right to draw attention to the statements that have been made as the process has developed. I see in the Chamber noble Lords who have been Home Secretary. I am not inviting them to intervene—at which point they all perk up and appear to be about to intervene. I see another one over there. This is the biggest collection of Home Secretaries in one place that I have seen. From time to time they have seen security situations change. Advice is given and, ultimately, whatever has been the position in the past, the Government, and in particular the Home Secretary, have to make a judgment about the necessary powers on the basis of the advice that he or she receives at that time. It is absolutely right that one will see assessments change from time to time; people have different views about the threat and one can only work on the basis of the threat as perceived by the government at the time.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is my fault for not understanding the point. The noble Lord is absolutely right. We laid an order proposing to extend the Part 4 powers. We did that as a contingency measure against not being able to put forward a Bill with more detailed proposals. Now, we have a Bill with more detailed proposals and one is absolutely right to draw attention to the different approach that we took in the autumn of 2001.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: As a government, all that they can do is assess the situation as it presents itself at a particular time. The noble Lord, Lord Forsyth, is absolutely right on both basic propositions that he makes: namely, what was said in March 2004 and that the Home Secretary—I would have to check this—had said words to the effect, "The risk has not become any greater". But that does not mean, looking at the matter overall, and listening to what the security services are saying at a particular time, that one does not come to the conclusion that these are the right powers at this time. The powers in relation to foreign nationals were more extreme than the particular powers with which we are currently dealing.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am horrified that the noble Earl—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
406: There would be a whole range of information that the intelligence services would have to evaluate to determine whether a control order was necessary. The situation posited by the
406Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: We have always made it clear that we would not wish under any circumstances to use any information obtained under torture. The position regarding the SIAC cases was, as far as the courts were concerned, that no material came from torture. In making their decision, the courts would have to evaluate what material was available to the security services, and consider that in relation to this issue. These are difficult questions, but ultimately we are talking about the protection of the state.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The original powers were sought in the immediate aftermath of 9/11. At that time we believed that foreign nationals provided the major Al'Qaeda risk in this country. As time has gone on by we have learnt more. It is not possible, nor sensible, to return to Parliament constantly to change the powers. In the light of the Law Lords' decision that the powers were unlawful, which we respect and accept, we now need to consider what are the appropriate powers in the context of the current situation and what we know. Having been advised by the security services, we take the view that those powers should extend not just to foreign nationals but also to UK nationals.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Again, we come back to the point that the existing powers have been deemed to be incompatible with the European convention. In order to be consistent, we need something different. Why did we not do it before and how did we survive before? We did not review the powers and the detail in the way that we are now reviewing them. In effect, the Law Lords' judgment provides the context in which to review the powers altogether.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
410: I have a number of stacked-up interventions to deal with. First, as far as the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, is concerned, I hope we have moved from class 5B. Whether it is to class 6 or class 7, I do not know. We will have to make a judgment.410Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Article 5 would be infringed if somebody was deprived of his liberty.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
411: We believe that it would satisfy the requirements. If the order made does not
411Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The judge will look at the facts sufficient to determine whether or not there was a legitimate aim of national security and, having regard to all of the facts, whether the response made by the Home Secretary was proportionate in that particular case.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It would presumably be quashed because it was disproportionate or not pursuant to a legitimate aim under the convention. If it was not pursuant to a legitimate aim, then he could not make any such order. If it was disproportionate, then the Home Secretary could come back only with an order that was proportionate.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
412: No, I do not think that is right. The courts have considered the question of the burden of proof in relation to these cases. In a recent
412Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Yes, there has been discussion on that between the Lord Chief Justice and myself. We both take the view that it is appropriate that Parliament should decide what should happen regarding the matter.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
413: We are extraordinarily conscious of that. We have to make it as clear as possible that the procedures we are adopting strike the right balance. That is why, for example, SIAC is not involved in any of this. The High Court of England and Wales, the Court of Session and the High Court of Northern Ireland will determine the procedures.413Lord Falconer of Thoroton
403402: This has been a constructive and interesting debate on very important issues. I shall go through it in stages.403402Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I do not think that there is any complexity in relation to the matter. There is a legal template which ensures that the rule of law is preserved against which all of these orders have to be judged. Ultimately, you have to look at individual cases on a case-by-case basis and have a standard against which you measure the proportionality or otherwise of the order. That is what the European Convention on Human Rights does and the way that we have constructed the Bill seeks to respect both the fact that the Executive are making judgments on national security and that the courts must look at each individual case and ensure that a proper balance has been struck.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is the High Court of England and Wales, or Northern Ireland, and it is the Court of Session in Scotland. They are the superior courts of record in all three jurisdictions. I can think of no more "normal" and no more admired courts than those three. Judicial review is a perfectly normal and proper judicial process. As far as access to the courts is concerned, in terms of expense, we have made it clear that legal aid would be available for those cases that had to be taken without means-testing. In those circumstances, the position would be that those who are the subject of a control order would have legitimate access to the courts.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: With the greatest respect, no. Derogation is required if we deprive someone of their liberty. If we say they have to stay in their house for 24 hours, or for 12 hours, and can only go out between two o'clock and four o'clock, that would probably be deprivation of liberty. However, if we say they have to report to the police station, or they cannot meet Mr X, that unquestionably would not be deprivation of liberty. Of course, in all of these areas there might be a grey area, where a combination of orders equals deprivation of liberty under Article 5. If the Home Secretary stepped over the line in relation to that, the order would be unlawful and would be set aside.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
405"have to adopt are not ideal, it is possible by using special advocates to ensure that those detained can achieve justice and it is wrong therefore to undervalue the SIAC appeal process"."We feel the case has additional importance because it does clearly demonstrate that, while the procedures which SIAC"—: It would be subject to the special advocates procedure, under which material that it is judged would damage an informant, for example, would not be made available to the suspect. Again, the committee chaired by the noble Lord, Lord Newton, and the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew, have both looked at how that system has operated. Is it just? So has the Court of Appeal in the case between M and the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Noble Lords will be aware that the Lord Chief Justice said about that procedure:
405"have to adopt are not ideal, it is possible by using special advocates to ensure that those detained can achieve justice and it is wrong therefore to undervalue the SIAC appeal process"."We feel the case has additional importance because it does clearly demonstrate that, while the procedures which SIAC"—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: These judgments have to be made carefully. We have to balance the effect of making an order on the fight against terrorism with the need, in certain circumstances, to restrict people's movements. The security services are saying that the judgment they make now requires control orders of a non-derogating sort. We all have to take into account whether, as my noble friend Lord Judd says, making such orders would make the position better or worse. It is an incredibly difficult judgment to make. We have to bear in mind that ultimately the advice we are receiving is that it provides greater, rather than lesser, protection for the state.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It would be wrong to say how many it is envisaged would be covered by the Bill.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
417: In order to make a non-derogating order one must first have reasonable suspicion that the person is, or was, a terrorist; and, secondly, the circumstances must justify the making of the order. One might come back on a second occasion, having established by material on the first occasion, that there was reasonable suspicion that that person is, or was, a terrorist.
417Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am not prepared to say how many people are currently liable to be the subject of control orders. It would not be appropriate to say that and I am not going to comment on the question.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
419: What my right honourable friend the Prime Minister said on "Woman's Hour"— probably a more challenging forum than this—was words to the effect that some hundreds were under surveillance. I am not quoting directly. That is a very different issue from how many control orders would be needed. I shall not speculate on how many control orders would be needed, save to say two things. For foreign nationals, the number of Part 4 orders made was under 20—I think that it was 17 at most. In relation to what was anticipated, my right honourable friend the Home Secretary said in another place that he would expect these powers to be used very, very sparingly.
419Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Save in relation to the effect of Amendment No. 91, we must remember that these orders are made either by the Home Secretary or by a court and that they impose particular restrictions. If there is a breach of those orders, it will be necessary to use the local police force to enforce the offence. But this is not abnormal; arrangements have traditionally been that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland deals with terrorism and orders under provisions relating to Northern Ireland, while the Home Secretary deals with terrorism issues in the rest of the United Kingdom.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: As the noble Lord, who is a distinguished former Secretary of State, will know, no Secretary of State can direct the police to do anything. If an arrest is required under Amendment No. 91 and the person was in Scotland, that would almost certainly be dealt with by the arrest warrant being handed to the Scottish police who would then decide how to execute it. If it happened in Strathclyde, it would be dealt with by the Strathclyde police, not by a constable coming across the border. There would be no need for that.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
421: The constitutional position is that no Minister can give a direction to a police officer. If an arrest is required because of a court order, the arrest warrant can be given to the police and it will be for them to decide what they do about it. There is no question of direction in that respect.421Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The essence of the procedure is not about arrest. It is the Home Secretary concluding that the person is, or was, a terrorist—let us put aside the question of burden of proof for a moment—and the circumstances are such that we need a control order to protect the nation against what that person may do.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I think that the question is directed to where is the defence for the agent of the state on the basis of the proposition advanced by my noble friend Lord Wedderburn. If the position were that it was an unlawful order because it was either disproportionate or because it was not pursuant to a legitimate aim that justified it there would not be a defence for it. That is the law because we are setting up a legal framework in respect of which those matters can be judged.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I may have misunderstood my noble friend's proposition, but, as I understand it, an unlawful order is made, someone seeks to enforce the order and the order is then set aside. I imagine that in those circumstances a remedy would be available to the person against whom the wrongful order had been made.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: That is an entirely legitimate point. There needs to be a fair procedure in determining people's rights, whether under judicial review or under the process in relation to derogating orders. At the heart of the issue of whether there is a fair procedure is the question of whether it can be a fair procedure when the suspect does not see all the allegations against himself or herself. The courts in this country—in relation to the SIAC process, where precisely that happens—have held that that is a fair procedure under Article 6.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: With respect to the noble Lord, it is not the case that it is possible that any order made under Clause 1 would offend against Article 5. It is very unlikely that if the Home Secretary intends it to be a non-derogating order, it would be anything other than that. For example, if you restrict someone from associating with one person, there would be no argument but that that was a non-derogating order. If there were any legitimate doubt about it, I have absolutely no doubt that the Home Secretary would not do it unless he derogated. In the vast majority of situations that one can think of, it would be utterly clear whether it was a derogating order or a non-derogating order.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I do not think that anybody would suggest that making the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew, report to the police station, say, once a week would constitute a deprivation of his liberty under Article 5. It may well engage other of the noble and learned Lord's rights. It is wrong that he should be asked to report to a police station once a week unless there is a good reason—for example, connected with national security—and it is a proportionate response to the threat which he posed. It would never be an infringement of his liberty, therefore it would never be a derogating order, but other rights would be engaged under the European Convention on Human Rights. If the response was disproportionate or not pursuant to a legitimate aim such as national security, judicial review would strike it down, which is a perfectly sensible framework.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is not a deprivation of his liberty under the jurisprudence of the European Convention on Human Rights. It would be legitimate only as a non-derogating order if it were pursuant and proportionate to a legitimate aim. Our courts, under judicial review in this scheme of things, could judge that matter and it would reach the courts quickly.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
obiter dictum,: The noble Baroness's recollection is absolutely correct. By a majority, the Court of Appeal said exactly that. The Court of Appeal concluded that there was no evidence that in fact had been obtained by conditions that we would regard as torture, but the legal conclusion to which the noble Baroness referred is exactly the legal conclusion that the court came to, having concluded that it was obiter dictum,Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: As the note mentioned by the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, says, if the amendment the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle, is referring to is between Amendments Nos. 6 and 15, the most appropriate course is for the noble Lord to speak to it now.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: As I hope I made clear, I do not have a record of the precise words that my right honourable friend the Prime Minister said on "Woman's Hour". I would need to look at it. The essential point that I am making is that the numbers to which the Prime Minister referred on "Woman's Hour" are not the same as the numbers in respect of whom control orders would be made.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
422: I did not deal with that question because that issue will be dealt with
422Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The Marshalled List before me shows Amendment Nos. 2 to 5 as being amendments to Amendment No. 1. If Amendment No. 8 is pre-empted, our response to the noble Lord's question is Amendment No. 126, which sets out the involvement of the prosecuting authorities in the process. That deals sufficiently with the point that has been made by my right honourable friend the Home Secretary' and by my noble friend Lady Scotland of Asthal; that is, that we always regard prosecution as the preferred option, but that we recognise that, in certain cases, prosecution will not be possible. Amendment No. 126 would require the issue of prosecution to be kept under constant review while a control order is in force.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I make it absolutely clear that that is not intended. There will be no preclusion of the matter coming back on Report. I put that on the record.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I can give the noble and learned Lord the assurance—the Clerks are nodding vigorously in my direction—that, assuming that there is no vote on my Amendment No. 1, the amendment tabled by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson of Lymington, would not be prevented from coming back later. I hasten to reassure all Members of the Committee that I am putting Amendment No. 1 in the Bill without in any way precluding any change that may be made subsequently. I am inserting the amendment only to ensure that there is absolute clarity about what we are debating. We all know that if we start having three or four different lists it becomes impossible.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
447446: The court can do what it does in all cases: make such orders as it thinks appropriate to ensure that all the available material is before it before it comes to a decision. The noble Lord, who is a distinguished lawyer himself, will know that the courts can make orders to require discovery and disclosure to assist in reaching its conclusions. So the court has more than enough powers to ensure that it has all the right orders. But the matter is to be determined in accordance with the rules of procedure of the High Court of England and Wales, and Northern Ireland, and the Court of Session. They have myriad powers that will allow them to get to the right answer.447446Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The point that I am answering in a lumbering way is that you can ask questions to prevent a terrorist outrage, but you cannot ask questions to convict the person of a criminal offence. It is perfectly legitimate that if, for example, you have information that suggests somebody has planted a bomb on the Tube, you are entitled to ask, "Where is that bomb?". If the person says, "No. I won't answer", breach of proceedings could be brought.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
445: I have absolutely no doubt that proportionality is an appropriate test and that it is enforceable. I am satisfied that it is because there has been considerable jurisprudence on proportionality in
445Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I shall try to reply to all of the amendments that we are dealing with. I shall deal first with the entirely legitimate point raised by the noble Lord, Lord Blackwell. We discussed it before lunch and after lunch, but there is no harm in going back to it again.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My attention flickered for a moment, and when the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, said it was central to the Opposition, I wanted to work out whether it was the burden of proof or the DPP. I apologise for interrupting.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The reason I describe the process as not being criminal proceedings is that it is about not convicting someone of a criminal offence but taking action to prevent a person, or a group of people, doing something. I fully accept that the consequence of making an order is intrusive as far as the individual is concerned. Both because of the European Convention on Human Rights and because we, as a country, would always accept this, there has to be a process that ensures fairness. That is the process measured by Article 6. I believe that we satisfy Article 6.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The Law Lords have said that that is unlawful.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity"."The Secretary of State may make a control order against an individual if he—Amendment No. 55 brings hack the burden of proof. It states:
"(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity"."The Secretary of State may make a control order against an individual if he—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The material relied on to justify the making of the order can come from anywhere.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Yes, it would be. The only jurisdictional requirement is that the "terrorist" is actually in the United Kingdom.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Amendment No. 27 is one of the three amendments that deals with voting and other electoral issues. We do not seek to interfere with the controlled person's political rights. In the majority of cases, therefore, the activities that are the subject of this amendment, as well as by Amendments Nos. 26 and 28, would not be affected. In rare cases, it might be that to vote in person or stand as a candidate would be inconsistent with the other necessary and proportionate restrictions on the controlled person's movements, but I regard that as extremely unlikely.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"In rare cases, it might be that to vote in person or stand as a candidate".: The words I used were
"In rare cases, it might be that to vote in person or stand as a candidate".Lord Falconer of Thoroton
448: The question is what is the legitimate question. The illegitimate question is, "Did you commit this bank raid last year?". That is not trying to prevent terrorism; it is investigating a crime. As to the legitimate question, I take the hypothesis of there being reliable information that suggests that there is an explosive device in a place where many people gather. Would it then be legitimate to ask that person, with the power of an offence being committed if he or she did not answer, "Could you please say where that bomb is?"? I shall be interested if noble Lords think that that is a wrong question to ask. As the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, implies, it would almost
448Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am very grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, who gave such straightforward and clear support for the proposition. The noble Earl, Lord Onslow, should think of joining Fountain Court Chambers: the distinctions he drew were so lawyerly and beyond reality.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Exactly. So that is the position relating to discrimination—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am grateful for the help that the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, has given me in that respect. I hope, by the example I have given, that I am identifying the sorts of question that it is legitimate to ask the person who you believe is a terrorist and who might have information that might stop an atrocity. It will not be limited to the sort of information I have given; it could also be, for example, to give the names and numbers of bank accounts where there is money that is being used to fund terrorism. It could be to identify other people who are in league with you in relation to this particular proposition. That seems to be particularly legitimate.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
450: It is not defined at the moment because it is about what the current law is in relation to self-incrimination. I am trying to explain—very inadequately—what the effect of the current jurisprudence is in relation to it under Article 6. I have no intention of putting anything on the face of the Bill. However, in the light of what was said by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, and the noble Duke, the Duke of Montrose, the right thing for me to do is to think about whether there are situations with which one is concerned, and whether there would be any value in putting forward an amendment. At the moment, I cannot think that there would be, but in the light of the points that have been so eloquently raised, I will certainly consider what the right course in relation to that is.450Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Again, one comes back to the fundamental question: is the order necessary to prevent the consequences of terrorism? The human rights protections are there. One is striking a balance between intruding on a person's rights and preventing a terrorist event occurring. Precisely what that involves requires the facts to be considered on a case-by-case basis.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
451: Every one of those questions is legitimate but can only be answered on the basis of an individual case. Plainly, it would be
451Lord Falconer of Thoroton
452"frustrate the policy and the objects of the Act … the target of the Act's policy includes those who belong to loose, amorphous, unorganised groups".: The burden of proof, as provided for in the Bill for a non-derogated order, is reasonable suspicion that he is or was a terrorist and, for a derogated order, satisfying the balance of probabilities that he is or was a terrorist. There is no burden of proof specified in relation to whether an order is necessary to prevent terrorism—those are not the exact words, but give the broad thrust. Regarding a non-derogating order we use the words "reasonable suspicion" because it will involve analysing a large amount of material and reaching a conclusion that there is a sufficient degree of suspicion to justify the making of a non-derogating control order.452"frustrate the policy and the objects of the Act … the target of the Act's policy includes those who belong to loose, amorphous, unorganised groups".Lord Falconer of Thoroton
462: Not in every single case. However, I should address the substance of the noble Earl's point. It is hard to imagine that the commission of an act of terrorism is not a criminal offence in some shape or form. But, to deal with the basic point that I think the noble Earl is making, the fact that it is a criminal offence is not the same as saying it can be prosecuted.462Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I do not want to deal with examples of that specificity. But if someone was sitting in a room saying, "I would urge you three to do the following: go out and get the materials to commit a terrorist act in the United Kingdom. Here are the things that you should do and I strongly urge you to do them", that could definitely constitute conduct which gives encouragement to the commission of a terrorist act. In those circumstances, on the basis of that material, it may well be that you would take the view that a control order was required.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I prefer not to deal with it now. We will deal with it when we get to the amendment referred to by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford—namely, Amendment No. 168. I apologise for not dealing with it now but, if we are going to cover the same point on Amendment No. 168, it might be convenient to deal with it then.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am not going to be drawn into saying whether or not a person is committing a criminal offence without specific facts. It would be extraordinarily unwise of me to do so. I have given an example which is more specific than the one given by the noble Baroness, Lady Falkner, to indicate that of course it is possible to envisage circumstances where urging someone to carry out a specific act—and I emphasise "specific" in these circumstances—could constitute both a criminal offence and justify the making of a control order. But I will not be drawn on condemning or saying that a particular kind of speech by a imam constitutes a criminal offence. That would be both unwise and irresponsible on my part.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I do not think that will be necessary.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is here is because we are defining what constitutes terrorist-related activity. The person against whom a control order is made has to be someone involved in terrorist-related activity. These are not being defined as crimes. They are defining what terrorist-related activity is.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I would say no, but I accept that we have to test this Bill to destruction—not against the current Government but against a government who sought lawfully to use this Bill in order to achieve the kind of malign result the noble Lord envisages. However, for the three separate reasons I have given, I suggest that adequate protections are in place. One brings forward a law, sets out what it prescribes, and ensures that the court enforces that law. If the law would not allow the result which the noble Lord poses as a bad possibility, I think we can be secure.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The circumstances would have to be such that the making of the order was necessary to stop a terrorist act occurring or to protect the public from terrorism. If the person who produced the fuse covering was working in Boots or another chain store, of course no court would make such an order. The court will look at all of the circumstances and come to a sensible conclusion, just as the Home Secretary would when he first looks at it. If he did not, his order will be struck down by judicial review.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"which facilitates the commission, preparation or instigation",460"is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity",: I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, for breaking the fixture on that provision."which facilitates the commission, preparation or instigation",460"is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity",Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Amendments Nos. 33 and 34 not moved."and (b) is subject (where they are applicable) to the provisions of section 2".: I apologise. Amendment No. 35 deletes the words,
Amendments Nos. 33 and 34 not moved."and (b) is subject (where they are applicable) to the provisions of section 2".Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Amendments Nos. 36 to 39 not moved.Page 2, line 44, leave out from "generally)" to end of line 45.moved Amendment No. 35:
Amendments Nos. 36 to 39 not moved.Page 2, line 44, leave out from "generally)" to end of line 45.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"Power by or under a control order to prohibit or restrict the controlled person's movements … includes, in particular".457Page 2, line 40, leave out "Every"moved Amendment No. 32:
"Power by or under a control order to prohibit or restrict the controlled person's movements … includes, in particular".457Page 2, line 40, leave out "Every"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am behind by about 14 editions of the groupings list. I apologise for that.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I have gone through the matter again and again and again. I could do so again but I do not think I would strengthen my arguments by repeating them unless the noble Lord would like to hear them again.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Amendment No. 44 not moved."designation order", in relation to a designated derogation, means the order under section 14(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998 by which the derogation is designated.""designated derogation" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42) (see section 14(1) of that Act);(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but
(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but"derogating obligation" means an obligation on an individual which—
"designation order", in relation to a designated derogation, means the order under section 14(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998 by which the derogation is designated.""designated derogation" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42) (see section 14(1) of that Act);(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but
(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but"(8A) In this Act—Page 3, line 21, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 43.
Amendment No. 44 not moved."designation order", in relation to a designated derogation, means the order under section 14(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998 by which the derogation is designated.""designated derogation" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42) (see section 14(1) of that Act);(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but
(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but"derogating obligation" means an obligation on an individual which—
"designation order", in relation to a designated derogation, means the order under section 14(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998 by which the derogation is designated.""designated derogation" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42) (see section 14(1) of that Act);(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but
(b) is of a description of obligations which, for the purposes of the designation of a designated derogation, is set out in the designation order;(a) is incompatible with his right to liberty under Article 5 of the Human Rights Convention; but"(8A) In this Act—Page 3, line 21, at end insert—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Before the noble and learned Lord sits down, having sorted out the confusions in the mind of the noble Lord, Lord Lester, could he attempt to do the same for me? Under subsection (1B)(b) of his new clause, the court comes into operation only if the Government have made a derogation order and are seeking to impose an obligation which is expressed to be within the scope of that order. On the other hand, the Secretary of State's power, under subsection (1A), applies only to an obligation which is not incompatible with the right to liberty. Therefore, if the Secretary of State makes an order which is found to be incompatible with the right to liberty, then that order is a nullity. If there is a situation in which no derogation order has been made, he cannot go to court; but, if he thinks that the order goes too far and imposes obligations that are incompatible with Article 5, he cannot make an order either. At that stage, nobody can make an order. Is that right?Viscount Bledisloe
371: The noble Baroness makes an important point. At the time the Secretary of State either, under the Government's plan, makes the order, or, under our and the Liberal Democrats' plan, makes an application to the court, he cannot know for certain whether the order for which he is applying will he derogating or non-derogating, because, in the last resort, that is a matter for the courts. Only the courts can decide whether Article 5 is breached. Thus, there is a built-in situation of uncertainty in both the Government's solution and ours, unless it is accepted right at the beginning that any order is potentially capable of being a derogating order.371Lord Kingsland
370: Before others of your Lordships intervene in this most important stage of the debate, perhaps I can also set in context our approach to these amendments.370Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I have great sympathy with the views expressed by my noble friends Lord Onslow and Lord Peyton, and I can perhaps suggest a way round the dilemma.Lord Kingsland
: I was only asking the noble and learned Lord. I am most grateful to all your Lordships who have spoken in this debate. Tempted though I am to put this to the test, my sense of personal survival is sufficiently strong that on this occasion, I shall not.Lord Kingsland
"conduct which gives support or assistance to individuals who are known or believed","conduct which gives encouragement to the commission, preparation or instigation of such acts","conduct which facilitates the commission, preparation or instigation of such acts",: I cannot move my Amendment No. 39 because I negligently misread the text. I think that I can manage to work it in in the context of Amendment No. 41. All these amendments refer to Clause 1(8). Paragraphs (a) to (d) seek to constrain somewhat the definition of terrorism-related activity. It is an essential tightening of that definition to insert the word "intended" into paragraphs (b),(c) and (d)."conduct which gives support or assistance to individuals who are known or believed","conduct which gives encouragement to the commission, preparation or instigation of such acts","conduct which facilitates the commission, preparation or instigation of such acts",Lord Kingsland
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord for the scope of his replies on what I thought was a fairly simple issue. Surely the way to test the amendments that I and my noble friends have tabled is to ask ourselves whether conduct falling within the scope of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), if committed either innocently or negligently, could possibly pose a threat of the sort that would require the measures contained in the Bill? Surely the answer must be no. In those circumstances how can the noble and learned Lord possibly reject these amendments on a rational basis?Lord Kingsland
449: This has been a useful exchange of views about Clause 1(3)(1). I suggest to the noble and learned Lord that the answer is that, between now and Report, he goes back and tries to refine this clause because there are a large number of circumstances in which it could operate extremely oppressively. The exchanges between the noble and learned Lord, the
449Lord Kingsland
: I am much obliged for the generosity of the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor in his admission.Lord Kingsland
435: Amendments Nos. 8 and 13 also appear in my name. I agree wholly with the remarks made by my noble friend Lord Carlisle of Bucklow. I
435Lord Kingsland
439: May I add to what I am sure are not the noble Baroness's words? In her extremely helpful
439Lord Kingsland
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord for giving way. Is this not a distinction without a difference? If one refuses to answer questions under Clause 1(3)(n) one can be prosecuted, convicted and sent to prison for five years for not answering. Either way, one is going to go to prison.Lord Kingsland
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. Given what she has just said, I see no reason why the Government cannot accept an amendment which would put the DPP on the face of the Bill, requiring the DPP to say to the court that he is satisfied, in all the circumstances, that a prosecution cannot be brought.Lord Kingsland
443: I shall have one more quick try on this issue. The solution that the noble Baroness is offering the Committee contravenes the principle that the noble Baroness has just adumbrated. She said that the Director of Public Prosecutions must remain completely independent of the Home Secretary. We entirely agree with that principle. That is why we want the Director of Public Prosecutions to report directly to the court in public. If the Director of Public Prosecutions reports to
443Lord Kingsland
"A control order may not require the controlled person to leave the United Kingdom"."A control order may not require the controlled person to talk to a specified person or any other person who is not a British citizen or is in the employment of or under contract to any foreign government"."Where a controlled person is required to meet with or report to a specified person he shall be entitled to have his legal representative present"."A control order may not require a person to provide information or to answer questions".427"a requirement on him to comply with a demand made in the specified manner to provide information to a specified person in accordance with the demand"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from displaying a poster in support of or opposition to any candidate or political party at an election"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from standing as a candidate in any election, including attending his election count"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from voting in person in any election"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from meeting with or contacting by telephone his legal representatives in connection with the control order or any other matter".426: I rise to speak to this amendment and to a number of our amendments that are grouped with it, in particular Amendments Nos. 14, 16, 19, 21, 22, 24 and 26 to 29."A control order may not require the controlled person to leave the United Kingdom"."A control order may not require the controlled person to talk to a specified person or any other person who is not a British citizen or is in the employment of or under contract to any foreign government"."Where a controlled person is required to meet with or report to a specified person he shall be entitled to have his legal representative present"."A control order may not require a person to provide information or to answer questions".427"a requirement on him to comply with a demand made in the specified manner to provide information to a specified person in accordance with the demand"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from displaying a poster in support of or opposition to any candidate or political party at an election"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from standing as a candidate in any election, including attending his election count"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from voting in person in any election"."A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from meeting with or contacting by telephone his legal representatives in connection with the control order or any other matter".426Lord Kingsland
: The noble and learned Lord referred to the usual channels. It was understood between the usual channels that a discussion on Amendment No. 8 would take place. If your Lordships were to glance at the latest list of amendments. your Lordships would see that the first amendment in the fourth group is Amendment No. 8. While we understand that, in order to be absolutely clear about the Government's case on Report, it is desirable to have all the Government's amendments included in the Bill when it reaches Report, that should not be used as a means of constraining the logical process of debate in your Lordships' House. If we are going to debate at a later stage where the DPP comes in, it would be wholly unfair to exclude the possibility of discussing Amendment No. 8.Lord Kingsland
: I may not have been following the proceedings as intimately as I should have, but have we passed Amendment No. 1?Lord Kingsland
: Is the noble Lord prepared to accept "balance of probabilities", rather than "beyond reasonable doubt" as the filter?Lord Clinton-Davis
: I agree entirely with the line taken by the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle of Bucklow. We may prefer, ideally, the solution which is before us, but we have to be realistic. When two Front Benches have agreed on the way we should proceed, we must be realistic about it.Lord Clinton-Davis
: Although Amendment No. 42 has not been formally moved, will my noble and learned friend attempt to deal with its purport? I am particularly concerned about Section 40 of the Terrorism Act 2000.Lord Clinton-Davis
: If there was no difference between derogatory and non-derogatory orders, that complexity would not arise. As far as the law is concerned, complexity, in my view, is the enemy of freedom and I do not believe that we should go down that route.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, perhaps I can be helpful. It is vitally important that we have sufficient time in this House to deal with all the amendments. I suggest that, in those circumstances, as I am sure all noble Lords will agree, we would be willing to work this evening until ten o'clock and, if needs be, to come in tomorrow.Lord Brooke of Alverthorpe
: My Lords, perhaps I may put the counter view that this is Parliament working at its best. The Commons protested—indeed it rebelled; the Government listened and introduced amendments that are now to be debated in this House. This is Parliament working at its best.Lord Campbell-Savours
: Will my noble and learned friend remind the Committee that it was one bomber who blew up the Grand Hotel in Brighton, another one who flattened the centre of Manchester and another one who blew up Canary Wharf? That is only three.Lord Campbell-Savours
: My noble and learned friend responded very constructively to the suggestions made by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson, and conceded that there might be a need to consider further what he had to say. I wonder whether my noble and learned friend might care to comment on the intervention of the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew. He made us think about another way of dealing with these matters that did not require immense compromise, but which tweaked the system in a way that might satisfy many Members of the Committee.Lord Campbell-Savours
351: My Lords, I associate myself entirely with the remarks of the noble Lord, Lord Russell-Johnston. As we are talking about the International Criminal Court, which is referred to in the
351Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, did not the UN Commission on Human Rights, when it looked at this appallingly difficult problem, recognise that there were atrocities on both sides? Would not the balanced view be that while the Chechen people want greater local autonomy, the Russians see this as a hotbed area of A1'Qaeda activity and Islamic extremism, with some evidence to support that, and that if it broke away altogether it would trigger the unravelling of the entire Russian Federation? So is not the right approach to applaud what the noble Lord, Lord Judd, expresses in his concern for human rights but also to recognise the Russian dilemmas and encourage the round-table talks which are proposed to be held in either Moscow or Grozny and support the aim of all sides, including the Russians, to try to resolve this eternally difficult problem in a less violent way?Lord Howell of Guildford
: I am listening to what the Lord Chancellor is saying, which is that there would be a judicial process in relation to Part 1—non-derogation orders. But surely I am correct in believing that it would not go to a normal court, as in the normal course of events, but would go to judicial review. Is that right? That really is not the same as going to an ordinary court. As I understand it, you have first to have consent to go to judicial review and that is also a costly process. When we are told that there is a judicial process, it is in fact highly complicated and not one which is generally understood by ordinary people like myself as being a judicial process.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
399"a requirement on him to comply with a demand made in the specified manner to provide information"."a requirement on him to co-operate"."a restriction in respect of his place of residence or on the persons to whom he gives access to his place of residence"."his association or communications with specified persons or with other persons generally"."a restriction in respect of his work or other occupation, or in respect of his business".Daily Telegraph: I have been listening with interest to the debate on the Government's amendment and on the amendment moved by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, and to noble Lords who seem to be extremely concerned that they may be required under the Bill, and in some of the amendments, to do the Government's work for them. I agree that that should not be the case.399"a requirement on him to comply with a demand made in the specified manner to provide information"."a requirement on him to co-operate"."a restriction in respect of his place of residence or on the persons to whom he gives access to his place of residence"."his association or communications with specified persons or with other persons generally"."a restriction in respect of his work or other occupation, or in respect of his business".Daily TelegraphLord Stoddart of Swindon
: I am obliged to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. To save him jumping up and down perhaps I can follow up with a further question that needs to be cleared up on this issue. The Prime Minister said on "Woman's Hour", as the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth, said, that there were hundreds of British citizens who were a threat. That statement was apparently challenged by a senior member of the security services who said that the number of people involved was 20 to 30. During the debate in the House of Commons in Committee, the Home Secretary said that there were only a handful. We really need to know who is right and what the figures are. Are the figures in the hundreds, is it 20 or 30, or is it a handful? When proposing such legislation we need to know exactly the extent of the problem.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: The Prime Minister has said it.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: Before the noble and learned Lord answers, may I elaborate a little on the noble Earl's point? It is an important one. The difference between several hundred, 20 or 30 or a handful is very important in the context of the Bill because we have to be proportionate in everything we do. The important point is this: the Prime Minister said that there were several hundred British citizens who could be engaged in, or were preparing to engage in, acts of terrorism. He said it on "Woman's Hour", which goes out to about 6 million people. That was then reported on other news broadcasts and in the newspapers, so that millions of people have got it into their heads that the Bill is about controlling several hundred potential or actual terrorists. If the message had gone out that there were 20 or 30 terrorists, then people's attitude towards the Government's actions could be entirely different. That is why it is important to know exactly what we are talking about. Is the figure several hundred? If so, what evidence is there of that? Is the figure 20 or 30, as the security services believe? Or will a handful of people be affected by this measure, as the Commons were told? It is a crucial point, which I believe has to be answered before the Committee allows the Bill to go forward in any form.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
"there were several hundred people in this country plotting to, or trying to, commit terrorist acts".: Before the noble and learned Lord sits down, will he clear up one more misunderstanding? He said that the Prime Minister referred on "Woman's Hour" to several hundred people being under surveillance. I had been led to believe that he said on "Woman's Hour" that,
"there were several hundred people in this country plotting to, or trying to, commit terrorist acts".Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: Surely, we must agree to Amendment No. 3, moved by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford. If not, the Home Secretary can do anything. He can impose any obligation on the individual—not just the obligations listed in Clause 1(3), but anything at all. At least the amendment limits his actions to what is set out in the Bill. If we do not have that limitation, he can do virtually anything he likes.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: That is what I was afraid of. I recall that many people who have been suspected or convicted of terrorist activities have in fact been allowed to stand in elections. They do not have to electioneer only by going outside their prison cell or their house. If they stood in a parliamentary election, they would be allowed at least one free post. Do I understand from my noble and learned friend's reply that there are certain circumstances in which a terrorist subject can be prevented from standing as a candidate in any election in the United Kingdom?Lord Stoddart of Swindon
"A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from standing as a candidate in any election, including attending his election count"?: Will my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor remind me of his answer to Amendment No. 27, which states:
"A control order may not prevent or restrict the controlled person from standing as a candidate in any election, including attending his election count"?Lord Stoddart of Swindon
470: My Lords, I am grateful for the questions that the noble Earl, Lord Howe, has asked, and I fully respect that they have been repeated briefly by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart. They go to the heart of the philosophy of the matter, and I had best start there.470Lord Triesman
Lord Triesman.8th Report from the Joint Committee467ad litem4664658th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 26 January be approved [Lord Triesman.8th Report from the Joint Committee467ad litem4664658th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Triesman
414: I am very grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for much that he has said. He has clarified a number of matters. But there is one matter which he certainly has not clarified. Is it not wholly artificial to give the judges a different role in the case of derogating control orders from their role in the case of non-derogating control orders, when the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor himself cannot say which of the requirements in Clause 2 will offend against Article 5 and which will not?414Lord Waddington
Hansard: My Lords, following up on the point made by my noble friend, I hope the Government Chief Whip will help the House on this matter. We are about to embark on a most unusual procedure. The House of Commons has at no time discussed, even for a moment, the proposals now being put forward by the Government, and we are to be invited, I understand, to send back to the other place a very different Bill incorporating the radical amendments put forward by the Government.HansardLord Waddington
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, will he say whether he will get me an answer to my question by twelve o'clock? How much time will be allotted in the House of Commons to consider amendments put to them by this place?Lord Waddington
: My Lords, may I make this short intervention? There is growing apprehension among the judiciary about exactly what they are being asked to do. There is great concern that they may be dragged into the political scene by being asked to rubberstamp a procedure quite alien to their function. During all these discussions, I hope that someone has had the good sense to raise this type of question with the senior Law Lord and the Lord Chief Justice. Unless that has been properly covered, we are really in the dark on the position.Lord Ackner
: I have one simple question. Reference has been made to the anxiety of senior judges and to the need for due process. Has there been any form of consultation or communication between the Lord Chief Justice and/or the senior Law Lord on this subject? If there has been communication, what was the substance of the interchange? If there has been no communication, why is that and can thought be given to instituting that now?Lord Ackner
: I posed a question before the adjournment regarding consultation with the Lord Chief Justice and the senior Law Lord. Much attention has been paid to the function that the judge is to perform. We have had arguments about whether it must be due process, and the extent to which the matter can be rubberstamped. Will the noble and learned Lord reply on whether there has been any discussion? If not, why not, and when will it take place?Lord Ackner
: Does the noble and learned Lord agree that the power of the judge would be to quash the order that had been made? He could not prevent the Secretary of State from immediately making another order on the same evidence. That is what is contained in the Bill.Lord Thomas of Gresford
369Line 7, leave out from beginning to "by" in line 11.moved, as an amendment to Amendment No. 1, Amendment No. 2:
369Line 7, leave out from beginning to "by" in line 11.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, we on these Benches agree with the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, that we should make progress. We are here to debate an important and main issue, which is whether the decision on the imposition of a control order should he made by a judge or the Secretary of State. We all understand that that is the burden of the first grouping, however it may be expressed.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General referred to the organisation, FORWARD. Is he aware that it estimates that 74,000 first-generation African women in this country have undergone mutilation of this type and that 7,000 girls under the age of 16 are at risk every year? In what way are health professionals encouraged to report this illegal, and therefore criminal, activity to the police?Lord Thomas of Gresford
In line 14, after "obligations" insert "specified in subsection (3)"moved, as an amendment to Amendment No. 1, Amendment No. 3:
In line 14, after "obligations" insert "specified in subsection (3)"Lord Thomas of Gresford
425424: I am grateful to all noble Lords who have participated in this interesting and very important debate. I am particularly grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor, who for well over an hour has endured an expert cross-examination by noble Lords. At times I thought that under Magna Carta he would have been facing trial by his peers, the charge being that the reason why the distinction between foreign nationals and British citizens has been dropped is that the Law Lords have said that there can be no discrimination under the European convention. His defence has been to say no, an unnamed number of terrorists who are British citizens have suddenly come out of the woodwork over the past few months.425424Lord Thomas of Gresford
Amendments Nos. 4 and 5 not moved.456"activity to be prevented or restricted by the obligations is connected with matters to which the Secretary of State's grounds for suspicion relate".: Time stands still in this place. I meant to say, on Monday.Amendments Nos. 4 and 5 not moved.456"activity to be prevented or restricted by the obligations is connected with matters to which the Secretary of State's grounds for suspicion relate".Lord Thomas of Gresford
: We are on the mauve version.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: The amendment is grouped with Amendment No. 35, which is a matter of some substance and where we want some explanations. As the two are together, I think that we should hear them together. So that is where we are.Lord Thomas of Gresford
455: It appears to be my responsibility to reply to what has again been a very lengthy and interesting debate. All I sought was to insert the words "specified in subsection (3)" into Clause 1. One hour and 57 minutes later, I am on my feet again.455Lord Thomas of Gresford
: I note that Amendment No. 168 is grouped with these amendments. I propose to break the fixture. I have been sitting on this Bench all day and have had no opportunity to consider groupings.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that a meeting of the All-Party Group on Human Rights under the chairmanship of Ms Ann Clwyd, MP, heard on Tuesday from a group of Russian lawyers and NGOs about the extreme difficulty that they have in raising human rights violations in Chechnya? Will the Government urge the Russians to sign up to the UN Commission on Human Rights' remit of inviting all the Special Procedures to visit Russia at their discretion, particularly the Working Group on Disappearances?Lord Avebury
No Place for a Child.asked Her Majesty's Government:No Place for a Child.Lord Avebury
352: My Lords, why does the noble Lord need more time to consider the recommendations made in this report when it simply reinforces what has already been said by the Chief Inspector of Prisons, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations Human Rights Committee and the UNHCR? All have criticised our policy of detaining 2,000 children a year, half of them for longer than the 28-day period which the noble Lord himself has said should be the upper limit. Does he not agree that, in the light of all the reports, there should be a root-and-branch review of the policy of detaining children with
352Lord Avebury
: My Lords, will the Minister take note of the concerns expressed in the report on the voluntary aided return programme? People working both in the Home Office and outside are concerned that the voluntary aided return programme is not being raised more clearly with asylum seekers, both at the initial stage of application and in detention centres. Indeed, it was a recommendation of the Home Affairs Committee of the other House in 2003 that more work should be done in this area. Will the Minister look carefully at this matter?The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, does not my noble friend agree that the action being taken by the Government to bring home the fact that they will not tolerate racism in the Immigration Service and elsewhere makes it appropriate to argue strongly that the way immigration policy is administered is absolutely central to the battle for hearts and minds in the context of global security; that is, by winning friends and not driving people into the arms of extremist opposition?Lord Judd
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that reply. Does she agree that at a time of great preoccupation about global terrorism, there is anxiety that the way in which the Russians are conducting the operation in Chechnya is driving young people and others into the arms of the extremists? The Russians' conduct is recruiting for the extremist cause. Is it not, therefore, crucial to make this a major issue at the most senior levels of government? Would it not be appropriate, as we take the presidency of the European Union and lead the G8 this summer, to ensure that this issue is high on the agenda with our allies and colleagues there so that they can join us in the pressure on the Russians?Lord Judd
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Judd
: Before my noble friend sits down. will she respond to one point? I find her argument extremely persuasive. But does she agree that we are in danger in our deliberations of looking at this from a very legalistic point of view? As the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew, has reminded us, we are dealing with a very sinister and dangerous threat. To be able to deal with that effectively, the battle for hearts and minds is crucial. What has always been central to the layman in our legal system—and I speak as a layman—is that justice is seen to be done. That is why due process and the balance of probabilities are so important.Lord Judd
: I apologise for interrupting yet again, but while we are on the point raised by my noble friend Lord Plant of Highfield, there are anxieties—I am sure that my noble friend will agree—about the real strength of the judicial review. We know the Human Rights Act 1998 has toughened this up a bit, but there are still doubts about how much muscle there really is in judicial review. If we are trying to ensure that justice is being seen to be done, would we not be in a stronger position if it was the balance of probabilities on non-derogating orders, rather than just a reasonable suspicion?Lord Judd
: I am grateful to my noble and learned friend for giving way. I have a certain amount of sympathy with the noble Earl in his anxiety that the difference between restriction of liberty and deprivation of liberty is a bit hypothetical. For the person concerned, it must sometimes be difficult to distinguish between the two. It is easier to do so on a legal basis.Lord Judd
: I thank the noble Lord for that clarification. That is a very reasonable and rational way to approach the matter. It is a serious compromise to make because there is a fundamental principle here which he was right to spell out. I would settle for the balance of probability as the baseline for non-derogated control orders. It seems to me that when it comes, as I said earlier in our proceedings, to a judicial review, it puts those conducting the judicial review in a stronger position than they would otherwise be.Lord Judd
436: I do not often find myself differing with my very good personal friend the noble Lord,
436Lord Judd
"A restriction on his association or communications with specified persons or with other persons generally".430: Like my noble friend Lord Plant, I support the amendment tabled by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas, because I find the provisions in Clause
"A restriction on his association or communications with specified persons or with other persons generally".430Lord Judd
469468"would be likely to prejudice the carrying out of social work by … [causing] serious harm to the physical or mental health or condition of the data subject or any other person".: My Lords, the House is grateful to the Minister for his clear explanation of the order. I am sure that like me, he believes in the principle of open access to information, as laid down in the Data Protection Act. and that all his instincts are to react against such an order, which restricts access to such information. None of us believes that we should be living in the world of "big brother".469468"would be likely to prejudice the carrying out of social work by … [causing] serious harm to the physical or mental health or condition of the data subject or any other person".Earl Howe
: My Lords, while returning the Question to order but nonetheless slightly widening its scope, will the Minister confirm that the encouraging aspect and broad background here is that in respect of both these particular issues and NPT adherence, WMD and the human rights aspects of the EU constitution when it has been ratified by all member states, along with the European Convention on Human Rights, those that are now putative new members of the European Union have to do all those things, not just some of them?Lord Dykes
: Before calling Amendment No. 1, I should point out that if Amendment No. 1 is agreed to, I cannot call Amendments Nos. 6 to 15 inclusive because of pre-emption.The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
Amendments Nos. 41 and 42 not moved.464: I beg leave to withdraw my amendment.Amendments Nos. 41 and 42 not moved.464The Duke of Montrose
Saunders v UKFunke v Funke428"shall authorise the disclosure of information subject to legal privilege".: In the truncated way in which we are addressing the Bill, two amendments to which my name is attached are in this group. I wish to speak to Amendments Nos. 37 and 38 now. So far as I can see, the main reason that they are in this group is that they relate to Clause 1 and we have simply lumped together as many amendments relating to Clause 1 as can conveniently be grouped.Saunders v UKFunke v Funke428"shall authorise the disclosure of information subject to legal privilege".The Duke of Montrose
: I think this covers the point raised in my Amendment No. 38 and I back up my noble friend Lord Kingsland in saying that we hope that the Government can think of some more sophisticated way of defining this issue.The Duke of Montrose
458"conduct which facilitates the commission, preparation or instigation of",Page 3, line 13, after "which" insert "knowingly"moved Amendment No. 40:
458"conduct which facilitates the commission, preparation or instigation of",Page 3, line 13, after "which" insert "knowingly"The Duke of Montrose
Amendments Nos. 6 to 31 not moved.: Amendments Nos. 6 to 15 have been preempted by the agreement to Amendment No. 1.Amendments Nos. 6 to 31 not moved.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Viscount Simon)
Amendments Nos. 45 and 46 not moved.Derogations from the right to liberty: There is a mistake in the Marshalled List. The italicised notice on Clause 2 stand part shall be taken after Amendment No. 54.Amendments Nos. 45 and 46 not moved.Derogations from the right to libertyThe Deputy Chairman of Committees (Viscount Simon)
: My Lords, this clearly is an important issue. It is part of the report and one of the 21 recommendations that we, as a government, need to digest carefully and consider further. I am sure the noble Earl will have heard at the outset of my responses that we desire to have a continued dialogue with Save the Children. We believe that the report is a very important contribution to that debate, which needs to continue. We will of course endeavour to respond in detail to all the recommendations in order that we can come to an agreed and acceptable way of ensuring that such children are well looked after and cared for.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I beg to move that debate on Amendment No. 2 be adjourned.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House be resumed. In moving the Motion, I suggest that the Committee stage begin again not before 2.35 p.m.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, the Government received the report on Monday. I ought to pay a compliment to Save the Children because this report is the fruit of a very good dialogue between Save the Children and the Home Office. We now look forward to continuing discussions with the charity so that we can consider its recommendations in a spirit of co-operation. We are at one with the noble Lord in wanting children to be detained for only the shortest possible period. We want also to ensure that such children are well looked after and cared for. It is clear that there are shared objectives here and we very much welcome the report in that light.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, we welcome the report as a valuable contribution to the debate about family detention. This is a detailed report and we will need to consider the contents and recommendations extremely carefully before responding in full, which we will do in due course.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, my noble friend makes an extremely important point. We have to be seen to be acting fairly and properly by running a decent and humane Immigration Service. In large measure, I invite my noble friend and other noble Lords to agree that that is exactly the approach undertaken by this Government over the past few years.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, I reject the allegation that this Government are procrastinating on these issues. I think that we have a very good human rights record and I would argue with the noble Lord that the treatment of failed asylum seekers who have to be detained before they are removed is fair and proportionate. Where there are abuses, we wish to know about them. Where there are abuses, we will tackle them. That is precisely why I replied as I did to the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, just a few moments ago.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, we take allegations of racism and excessive force very seriously indeed. Those matters have to be properly investigated. It is in no one's interest if such allegations have any substance. If anything substantial is found, those responsible need to be rooted out of the service. However, it is true that the vast majority of those working in detention centres and who are part of the removals process are honest, hardworking people with decent values. However, where we do come across unacceptable behaviour or practice, we need to ensure that they are brought to an end.Lord Bassam of Brighton
353: My Lords, regrettably I was not able to watch the programme shown last night. I wish that I had been able to because, like all other Members of Her Majesty's Government and particularly those with responsibilities for and interests in Home Office affairs, I take very seriously any allegations of racism and racist abuse. I like to think that I am part of a proud record of dealing with those issues.
353Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, we take all of the recommendations seriously. This is clearly an important one to which we will give fair consideration. We of course wish to have a dialogue with the charities and NGOs involved in those discussions.Lord Bassam of Brighton
: My Lords, in appropriate circumstances, particularly where families are being removed because their application has failed. it is only decent and proper to ensure that those children are held together with their families before they return to their country of origin. The noble Lord will know also that it is our policy to place unaccompanied asylum-seeking children in the care of local authorities, not to hold them in detention centres. That, too, is right and proper.Lord Bassam of Brighton
ex parteex parteex parte377: I speak to Amendment No. 6, which is included in the group. The Government have put forward a whole range of amendments, as the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland of Asthal, said in a letter which we have all received. Fourteen of the amendments stem from the Government's decision that these orders shall be made by the judge. If something could be produced which achieves the Government's objective but does not involve the court in that way, surely that would be better.ex parteex parteex parte377Lord Donaldson of Lymington
423: I thought that the noble and learned Lord had indicated that he was not going to accept my alternative but would give serious consideration to it over the weekend. If the usual channels have agreed that Amendment No. 1 should be voted on today, surely that precludes me saying on
423Lord Donaldson of Lymington
: My Lords, has the noble Lord noticed among the findings set out in the Save the Children report that there is a severe lack of legal representation for many children being held in detention? Does that not undermine completely the principle of bail in detention?The Earl of Sandwich
357: My Lords, was not the Government Chief Whip slightly optimistic when he
357Lord Peyton of Yeovil
: Is the noble and learned Lord really suggesting that we would have no difficulty in discussing 29 government amendments, all of which are starred? I do not agree; we have absolute difficulty. That is why I have formally moved that this House do now resume.Lord Peyton of Yeovil
Lord Peyton of Yeovil.: I am really getting worried. The Government Chief Whip got to his feet at about half past eleven and said one of the most optimistic things that I have ever heard: that if the House were adjourned for a quarter of an hour we would achieve absolute clarity. The prospect of absolute clarity has since then receded considerably.Lord Peyton of Yeovil.Lord Peyton of Yeovil
Power to make control orders: My Lords, there are not many of my noble friends on the Front Bench—most of them are absent, unless I have misunderstood.Power to make control ordersLord Peyton of Yeovil
: My Lords, from these Benches I wish to associate myself with the remarks of the Opposition Chief Whip and to add that, for us to do our job properly and to consider the Bill carefully, it is extremely important on this occasion that we get the groupings right and that we separate the different issues so that we can consider them properly. I believe that the delay is in the interests of the whole House and therefore we support it.Lord Roper
"It shall be immaterial, for the purposes of determining what obligations may be imposed by a control order made by the Secretary of State, whether the involvement in terrorism-related activity to be prevented or restricted by the obligations is connected with matters to which the Secretary of State's grounds for suspicion relate"."has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity".: I was interested in what the noble and learned Lord said about proportionality. Amendment No. 55, which deals with non-derogating orders, starts with the power to make a control order against an individual if the Secretary of State,
"It shall be immaterial, for the purposes of determining what obligations may be imposed by a control order made by the Secretary of State, whether the involvement in terrorism-related activity to be prevented or restricted by the obligations is connected with matters to which the Secretary of State's grounds for suspicion relate"."has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity".Lord Cameron of Lochbroom
: Before the Minister speaks again, perhaps I could raise a point in regard to what she has said. The noble Lord, Lord Forsyth, raised this matter earlier à propos the Home Secretary and the Secretary of State for Scotland. In Clause 12, the definition of "the court" clearly makes a distinction between a controlled person whose principal place of residence is in Scotland, in which case the Scottish courts have jurisdiction, and those elsewhere. The High Court has jurisdiction in Northern Ireland and in any other case it is the High Court in England and Wales.Lord Cameron of Lochbroom
: I hesitate to interrupt my noble and learned friend, with his great experience of these matters, but on what authority does he base the defence of trespass to the person on the proportionality of the trespass?Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
ex parte416: Suppose I was put under a curfew, and I did not comply with it, and when the constable manhandled me back through the front
ex parte416Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
379378: As noble Lords have pointed out, many of the proposals are based on the fact that you would know whether you are in Article 5 territory and that the necessary derogation may not be made in time for it to work. But, surely, the matter does not concern just Article 5. The noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew, on the Liberal Democrat Benches, gave us a report a long time ago, which pointed out that some obligations imposed by the Home Secretary from the list on page 2 of the Bill may
379378Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: If we are going to set the scene for a semi-Second Reading, then all sorts of other amendments are material and relevant to the point the noble and learned Lord is making. I have Amendment No. 79 in mind especially. I have a list of others, but it is a good illustration of what, if we are going to have this sort of debate, noble Lords must have in their minds, not merely the amendment that the noble and learned Lord is citing.Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
"a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law".: Perhaps I may take my noble and learned friend back to his answers to my noble friend Lord Plant. As this debate is a record that will be scoured by many people, I think that points of uncertainty should be covered."a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law".Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: So we are taking the whole Bill now.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
"reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity".376: I must confess that I am equally confused about the situation, and what we are actually debating. I am reminded of the judge—whose name escapes me, but the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor will remember it—who once said to F E Smith, having heard his argument, "Mr Smith, I am none the wiser". To which F E Smith replied, "Your Lordship is none the wiser, but at least you are better informed". I feel I am better informed as a result of the speech of the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor, but I am none the wiser as to where we really are."reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity".376Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: Amendment No. 80 is not in the grouping that we are discussing.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: The Chairman of Committees has just said that if Amendment No. 1 is agreed, and the 16 lines are removed, all those amendments relating to Clause 1 as it stood previously would drop and could not be moved. It would not therefore be possible to debate them in this Committee. I accept that the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor is not attempting to avoid debate on all those matters. However, could it not be agreed at least that the Minister should give notice that at the end of the debate on the amendment she will withdraw it, making it clear that she will bring it back at a later stage having heard the further arguments?Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
358: My Lords, surely the muddle is being caused by the unnecessary speed with
358Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: The Minister has not answered my specific question. In his opening speech he suggested that a curfew order would not be a deprivation of liberty. I find that extraordinary. Surely if someone is to be required to stay in a building, let us say from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., that must be a deprivation of his liberty.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: I do not think that Amendment No. 8 is movable. It relates to the first 16 lines of the Bill, which are to be deleted.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: Assuming that this amendment is passed and, therefore, the other amendments cannot be taken, will the noble and learned Lord deal with one of the questions that I asked; namely, whether the Director of Public Prosecutions should assure himself that the conditions exist in which a fair trial would not be possible before an application is made?Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: I am not sure whether the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor wishes to reply individually to the mini-debates, or whether he would rather hear various people moving their amendments and then reply at the end.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: I was just coming to that. I have put it as high as the criminal burden of proof because I was equating it with those criminal cases where people end up in prison and, on this occasion, may end up under house arrest. I realise that I am in a minority on that issue and I realise that my—I was going to say "elders" but I had better say—"youngers" and betters on both sides believe it should be "balance of probabilities" rather than "beyond reasonable doubt". Therefore, although I still believe that there is a strong argument in favour of the criminal standard of proof, at least the insertion of the words "he must be satisfied on the balance of probabilities"—the test taken by the civil courts—would improve the Bill as it is at the moment.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
"The Secretary of State may make an order … against an individual if he … has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism".434: I wish to speak to Amendments Nos. 8 and 10. Although I said earlier that I was totally confused, the situation has been made considerably clearer by the last, very long intervention of the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. I am now a little wiser, as well as being better informed."The Secretary of State may make an order … against an individual if he … has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the individual is or has been involved in terrorism".434Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: I am very grateful to the Minister, doing her best as ever to be helpful. On the substance of what she said she was extremely helpful in setting out the steps that are taken. But none of that is written in the Bill. I cannot see, particularly from the fact that those steps are taken, why there should not be a clear recognition in the Bill that before such an application shall he made, whoever it may be—I may be wrong in saying that it is the DPP—shall be satisfied that a normal trial is not possible. It has been said in this House today that it is important not only that justice is done but that it is seen to be done. If this amendment is on the face of the Bill, people will know that somebody has taken those actions. At the moment, there is no reference to it. So while I am very grateful to the Minister on the substance of what she said, she should think about taking this amendment away and turning it into statutory form by Report.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: I was not backing off. still believe that it would be better to have the criminal burden of proof. I was facing reality. Faced with amendments by both Front Benches that chose balance of probabilities, I said that at least if we got something on the face of the Bill about the burden of proof that would be an advantage. Of course I would like people to go the whole way, but I am being realistic.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: It would have been helpful if we had had a little longer to study the amendments rather than receiving them all yesterday.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
454: Perhaps I may ask a question about the amendment on the burden of proof. At the moment, it is right that, in the Bill as it stands, the Secretary of State has to be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting someone. Later the Bill says that under a derogating order, he may make a control order imposing an obligation that is incompatible if he is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that that person is involved. In other words, he has brought in the standard of proof. Is the noble and learned Lord satisfied that he has done so in the amendments?454Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
"what is meant by 'Government supported schemes' and whether voluntary work, work experience and other more informal forms of training are going to be eligible for Child Benefit"."If it is only approved 'Government supported schemes' that are eligible, then young people may not feel that they have the financial support to participate in",392: My Lords, it is a pleasure to follow the constructive and thoughtful speeches of the noble Baroness, Lady Gale, and the noble Lord, Lord Haskel. I am happy to make it clear from these Benches that, like them, we support this modest but sensible Bill. I am not sure whether I should be here at all. Many of the issues we have been discussing are educational and this feels as much an education Bill as a Treasury one. But we have an all-encompassing Treasury these days and so I shall do my best."what is meant by 'Government supported schemes' and whether voluntary work, work experience and other more informal forms of training are going to be eligible for Child Benefit"."If it is only approved 'Government supported schemes' that are eligible, then young people may not feel that they have the financial support to participate in",392Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I am just responding to the Minister's request. Subject to his summing up and answering the points that I have raised, I have no plans to table amendments.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
401: As another non-lawyer I have been trying to make sense of the debate so far. I will tell the House how I understand it and perhaps someone can correct me if I am wrong.401Lord Desai
: I raise a point of procedure. As far as I am aware, the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson of Lymington, has not yet moved his amendment, and every other group has been moved. Should we not proceed on to substantial discussions after that amendment has been moved?Lord Desai
432: In his answer, will my noble friend clarify two issues? Would each person have only one control order from paragraphs (a) to (o) placed on him, or more than one? If the latter is the case—and he alluded to this question earlier—is there a threshold, beyond which, if a person is subject to more than one control order, it violates Article 5, as opposed to being
432Lord Desai
: So the noble and learned Lord is saying that the Home Secretary would give a direction to a chief constable in Scotland.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
420: I am sorry to press the noble and learned Lord on this matter, but it is
420Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord. That is quite a departure; in the past it would have been the Secretary of State for Scotland. Detention and arrest have a different meaning north of the Border, as the noble and learned Lord knows. If the Home Secretary made an order to arrest someone living in Scotland, he has no operational interest in respect of the Scottish police. Does that mean that an English policeman would be sent to Scotland to make the arrest?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
362: My Lords, I have some sympathy with my noble friend, but I should quite like to get on with discussing the Bill and using the time available.362Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
Hansard,: I apologise for interrupting but I would like to follow up a point made by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick. He pointed out that a year ago the Government took the view that it was not necessary to extend these powers. I cannot provide the quote from Hansard,Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: Forgive me, I do not know the exact date, but I believe that the Government tabled the statutory instrument to extend the existing powers under the Act that was passed post 9/11. Four weeks ago, they also published an explanatory memorandum. Is the Lord Chancellor saying that the Government did that in the knowledge that there was a serious threat from British citizens and that they would have to do something about it? I find that puzzling. If the Government had been told by the security services that there was a threat, what on earth were they doing extending the existing powers that the Lord Chancellor tells us are not adequate to meet that threat?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
407: I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for giving way. I put this point to him at Second Reading. I hear what
407Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
400: I hesitate to intrude in the proceedings, surrounded by so many eminent lawyers, but I think that I may be uniquely advantaged—or disadvantaged—by not being a lawyer.400Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, I appreciate that these are usually matters for the usual channels but, as a humble Back-Bencher—perhaps not so humble—I would like to protest in the strongest possible terms. I have cleared my diary because of the importance of this matter. As far as I can see, there is not even a Minister on the Bench responsible for the Bill. People have had to work all night on these amendments and it really is outrageous if Ministers cannot get their act together when we are faced with the presentation of legislation on this kind of timetable.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, I do not know whether the noble Lord was able to see the programme on television last night showing incidents of real abuse, racial intolerance and total indiscipline on the part of certain members of staff. I know that he has duties in this House, so perhaps it is a little unfair to hurl this at him. However, when Home Office representatives have had time to watch the programme and digest its implications, will he please arrange for a Statement in this House on the whole issue of poor discipline among Immigration Service guards?The Earl of Onslow
404: Not surprisingly, I am still in the most terrible muddle. Taking up what the noble Lord, Lord Stoddart of Swindon, said, if someone is told he
404The Earl of Onslow
: Just now the noble and learned Lord said that the intelligence services need these powers. Can he explain why, up until the Law Lords' judgment, they banged up 14 people in Belmarsh and the powers were considered to be quite enough, but suddenly, after the Law Lords' decision, there are lots of British subjects wandering about the place who they think might blow up a mosque or three or an aeroplane? Can the noble and learned Lord explain why suddenly the situation has become so much more dangerous than it was a month ago?The Earl of Onslow
409: The noble and learned Lord has just said, "I agree that the Home Secretary said a year ago that we did not need the powers, I agree that the Home Secretary said last week that the situation is exactly the same, but I now say we need new powers".
409The Earl of Onslow
363: My Lords, before my noble friend on the Front Bench sits down, I believe he said that he has given a commitment to the Government that they will have the Bill by Tuesday. I hope that the
363The Earl of Onslow
361: I understand completely the position of the Liberal Democrat Front Bench. They have tabled their amendments to a government amendment, and if it is not moved, their points cannot be raised. It just shows what a total foul-up the whole procedure has been. I have great sympathy with that. Would it not be possible to discuss the amendments to the government clauses and the government amendment and perhaps not move any of them? If there were some form of agreement, all the amendments could be tabled again on Report, when most of the work will have been
361The Earl of Onslow
: Before the Minister moves Amendment No. 1, would it not be much better if she gave an undertaking not to insist on putting her amendment in the Bill at this stage, so that the amendments that would otherwise be excluded could be discussed properly and in the right place? Then, if the Committee proceeds along the lines of some form of agreement, her amendment could be moved on Report, and it in turn may have to be amended after the Government have listened to what Members of the Committee have had to say.The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, this is not a Bill to reorganise Scunthorpe Borough Council but a Bill which will allow—or which will attempt to allow—the Government to lock up a British subject founded on bizarre rumours and enhanced by evidence from overseas intelligence services which could well have been extracted by torture. That is what the Bill will allow.The Earl of Onslow
375: The point made by the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, during the speech of my noble friend Lord Kingsland strikes me as extremely important. From what I have heard, the moment a non-derogating order goes in front of my learned friends, they will find that they are in breach the European Convention on Human Rights. So the Government will be back slap in the middle of the same difficulty in which they now find themselves, if they do not accept something along the lines of the Liberal Democrat proposal.375The Earl of Onslow
: Perhaps the noble Lord would give way and help me to understand this point. Am I to understand that, in effect, he proposes that a Bow Street magistrate signs a warrant to detain a gentleman who then goes before a judge in a superior court of record who carries out the trial? For those of us who do not like the present provisions, that is much nearer to what we would like.The Earl of Onslow
: So, in effect the noble and learned Lord is reading Amendment No. 2A. Is that right?The Earl of Onslow
418: Will the noble and learned Lord, during the little break, either pick up the telephone or ask one of his assistants to do so and call No. 10 Downing Street? The Prime Minister said that there were several
418The Earl of Onslow
433: A paper was circulated to us saying that Members with Amendments Nos. 6 to 15 could speak, and I think that is a reasonably satisfactory arrangement.433The Earl of Onslow
Sicherheistdienst: The Americans have something known as "Taking the fifth", which says that you need not answer any question that may incriminate you. Subsection (3)(n) says that unless you do answer a question that may incriminate you, you can go down for five years. It says, as my noble friend on the Front Bench said, that you have to answer questions from foreign police forces if they are asked over here, that you must answer questions from our own police force, and that you may not avoid them.SicherheistdienstThe Earl of Onslow
: Who is going to feed him? Who is going to water him? Who is going to look after him if he is locked up, is not allowed out and he cannot go to the social security office to pick up his cheque, because he has lost his job? If that is not seen as unfair, at least in the nick there is a thumping great warder from the Prison Officers Union who will probably beat him up behind the bike sheds, but who will at least shovel some filthy food down his throat.The Earl of Onslow
: If the question is, "Did you commit a bank raid last year?", and the answer is, "No", then the suspect does not go inside because he does not have to answer. If it is, "Did you plant a bomb a week ago?", the chap is still being asked whether he committed a crime because placing a bomb is not a legal thing to do. So asking, "Have you placed a bomb?"—The Earl of Onslow
: I agree with the noble Lady, Lady Saltoun. House arrest is, in effect, imprisonment and asking the prisoner to pay for his own gaoler.The Earl of Onslow
: I have wanted to know the answer to this question for a long time. If somebody is going around committing credit card fraud, talking to somebody else and thinking of blowing up something, surely he is conspiring to blow up something. Therefore, he is committing an offence. Why does the law of conspiracy not apply?The Earl of Onslow
: There must be something in the Bill that says how the Home Secretary arrives at his conclusion—the mechanism that must be on the face of the Bill. If it is not via the DPP, perhaps the noble Baroness and the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor, who have tonnes of brains between them, can think up a way in which this could be set out on the face of the Bill. That is absolutely essential.The Earl of Onslow
"a requirement on him to comply with a demand made in the specified manner to provide information to a specified person in accordance with the demand".: I want to go back to this. Clause 1(3)(n) refers to,
"a requirement on him to comply with a demand made in the specified manner to provide information to a specified person in accordance with the demand".The Earl of Onslow
"the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism".: In subsection (8)(a) there is a reference to,
"the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism".The Earl of Onslow
: But an encouragement implies intent anyway. I accept that it would be better to put it in the Bill, but are not most of the matters in the subsection criminal offences already?The Earl of Onslow
: Are they not? Is conduct which encourages someone to prepare or instigate a criminal act not a criminal act?The Earl of Onslow
jihad?: Will the noble and learned Lord answer the very valid point made by the noble Baroness, Lady Falkner, about the imam in the mosque encouraging jihad?The Earl of Onslow
: Would the individual against whom a non-derogatory order had been made, and to whom one part of this cocktail of conditions applied, be entitled to know what the evidence was against him or her?Lord Dholakia
354: My Lords, I want to pursue slightly further the question put by my noble friend Lord Lester. Do the Government subscribe to international
354Lord Dholakia
444: Before the noble and learned Lord responds to this debate, perhaps I may raise just one question which I hope he will address. As a non-lawyer, I hesitate to trespass in this tricky territory. However, having read the Bill and listened to this debate, I believe that the one thing that is missing is clarity about what opportunity individuals subject to a control order will have to understand and respond to the cases against them. I can find only one mention of it, in Amendment No. 12, tabled by my noble friend Lord Kingsland. Perhaps I have missed it or it is
444Lord Blackwell
: Can the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor tell me if the suspected acts relating to terrorism have to be within British jurisdiction, or can they be acts that it is believed are being planned in another jurisdiction?Lord Tebbit
: I was not asking about where the information comes from, but where the act that is feared is planned to be carried out. For example, it might be a suspicion that someone connected with ETA was planning an outrage in Spain. Would that be covered by these provisions?Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I think that the noble Baroness is right to say that no prosecutions have been made. At least I have not come across any examples. One of the reasons why the 2003 Act was passed was to deal with some of the difficulties involved in prosecution; that is, if it was suggested that the procedure had taken place abroad, it was difficult, if not impossible, to prosecute. I agree with the noble Baroness also about the importance of raising awareness, and that is going on. I take some small comfort from the fact that the research that I have seen in relation to other countries indicates that they too have difficulties in prosecuting.Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I cannot. The noble Lord will understand why it would be undesirable to go into too many details. It is important that the message is given out strongly to health professionals and others that the matter will be taken seriously. It is a brutal practice; it causes lifelong damage to the girls and women to whom it is applied; and we really must do all we can to stamp it out.Lord Goldsmith
350: My Lords, the noble Baroness is of course right to draw attention to the consequences of female genital mutilation, not just in the long term, but immediately in the aftermath of the procedure being carried out. Seven specialist clinics in the NHS provide healthcare for girls and women who have undergone
350Lord Goldsmith
348: My Lords, there have been no such prosecutions although there are some ongoing investigations. But the success of the Act is not necessarily to be measured solely in terms of
348The Attorney-General (Lord Goldsmith)
349: My Lords, those are statistics that I have seen before. One has to be a little careful about the "at risk" figure because it is based to some extent on the number of girls of a certain age in communities that have practised the procedure. Each of the major professional bodies has issued guidance or position statements on FGM, particularly since the 2003 Act came into force. I can provide hereafter a list of those bodies if the noble Lord wants it. I agree with him though that it is important that we should continue that work and, particularly, bring home the message, which I know that police are doing at least in London, that it is important
349Lord Goldsmith
: My Lords, I absolutely agree with my noble friend that raising awareness, particularly among the practising communities, and educating them about the dangers and unacceptability of this brutal practice is essential. I had not been aware of the details that the noble Baroness has just mentioned until she kindly provided them in advance.Lord Goldsmith
347: My Lords, will my noble friend and Her Majesty's Government remind the Russian Government of their obligations as members of the Council of Europe? With particular regard to a recent case that was taken to the European Court of Human Rights which found against the Russian Government in six cases of human rights abuses, will Her Majesty's
347Lord Truscott
: My Lords, are the Government taking seriously the very widespread concern, beyond even the question of children, about the privatised detention and removal of people from this country? Has the noble Lord himself looked into the allegations of racism, bullying and the use of excessive force in both detention centres and during the removal process?Lord Hylton
: So, in the vernacular, is it reasonable to say that the judge would be looking at the merits of the case?Lord Plant of Highfield
: I was talking about non-derogating orders and the way those orders would infringe articles other than Article 5. That can be justified under the convention if it is through a procedure prescribed by law. I wonder whether the non-exhaustive nature of the obligations set out in the Bill would satisfy the principle that it is prescribed by law. It does not cover every obligation that might be imposed.Lord Plant of Highfield
: I am sorry to disagree with my noble and learned friend on that issue. Assuming for the moment that the Government's proposal goes forward, I wonder whether he would clear up a couple of points, one of which was slightly in dispute at Second Reading. It is a straightforward thing, and it would be good to hear his view.Lord Plant of Highfield
: On the burden of proof point, although we shall return to it later, when my right honourable friend the Home Secretary gave evidence to the Joint Committee on Human Rights—it was an open session with the public present, so I do not believe that I am breaching any convention of the House by mentioning this—he was asked about the burden of proof for non-derogating orders and whether it should be the "balance of probabilities" as opposed to "reasonable suspicion". I cannot quote his answer verbatim, but it was more or less that there was no reason of principle why it could not be the "balance of probabilities"; it was just a matter of practicality. Are we to assume that the issue of practicality to which he was alluding, on which he did not elaborate, was the same kind of consideration in aid of which my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor has cited Lord Justice Laws?Lord Plant of Highfield
: I have one point which may be out of order, as I am a little mixed-up, procedurally. The noble Lords, Lord Carlisle and Lord Judd, and I referred to the burden of proof. It may be best to deal with that at some other stage, but it was an issue that was ventilated.Lord Plant of Highfield
437: I rise to say that I strongly agree with the points made about the role of the DPP in the amendments of the Liberal Democrats and the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. At Second Reading I said that I thought the role of the Director of Public Prosecutions was going to be fairly central to this and that it should not be either the Government or the security services who determine whether an individual
437Lord Plant of Highfield
429: I support the amendments, especially the one in the name of the noble Lords, Lord Goodhart and Lord Thomas of Gresford. The list of obligations set out in the Bill is long, onerous, open-ended and somewhat indefinite. A good case was made by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, to freeze the set of obligations at this and not to have others that could be brought in using the enabling part of the legislation, rather than putting them through by extra legislation.
429Lord Plant of Highfield
359: My Lords, could the Government Chief Whip explain one thing? He suggested originally that we adjourn the House until 11.45 a.m. That caused so much steam that everyone discussed it, and now it is 11.45 a.m. I cannot see why we now have to adjourn until twelve
359Earl Ferrers
: A point raised by the noble Lord, Lord Stoddart, has not been dealt with. It goes back to the reasons why the provision is necessary. He asked how many suspects there were. There was a range of figures from 100 to a handful, and the noble and learned Lord replied that it was not a good thing to speculate. He is not being asked to speculate: he is being asked to say which of his colleagues was right. What is the answer?Lord Elton
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Russell-Johnston
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the failure to apprehend either Karadzic or Mladic so many years after Srebrenica really shames us? At a meeting that I attended towards the end of last year, I understood from the French general who had taken over the EU force that had replaced NATO that their apprehension was not a priority mission of the EU force, nor was it of NATO. I do not understand why not, because I am sure that a determined effort to find those people would work.Lord Russell-Johnston
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the round table discussions will not be effective unless they genuinely include representatives of Aslan Maskhadov? Is it still the Government's policy to offer asylum to supporters of Maskhadov who seek it in this country?Lord Russell-Johnston
Hansard391390: My Lords, I, too, thank my noble friend for introducing this Bill, and I want to join my noble friend Lady Gale in saying a few words in support. In various incarnations, both in government and in opposition, I have spoken up in support of skills training in the DTI. But do not just listen to me. Listen to what Steve Stewart has to say about the Bill.Hansard391390Lord Haskel
394: My Lords, I may have misunderstood what the noble Baroness said, but it does mean we have
394Lord Higgins
: My Lords, in fact it was half an hour, not 45 minutes. The system is vastly different from the one that we used to have. If it was necessary to curtail debate because of filibustering or some urgency, at least half a day's debate was allocated to justify it. Now everything is programmed, which was unheard of 10 years ago. The way in which debate has been curtailed in the other place is deplorable.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, a situation in which child tax credit has been wrongly paid by the Inland Revenue, which then claims it back from the poor families concerned, who have spent the money, cannot possibly be described in that way.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, the purpose of this Bill is clear and we support the objectives. We have had a short and interesting debate about a short and interesting Bill. There is no doubt that the case made by the Minister and other speakers for more action in this area is overwhelming. The regulatory impact assessment spells it out in considerable detail, so I do not need to stress its importance. However, one or two points must be made.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I did not quite catch what the Minister said was "paid directly to them". I presume he means the "child".Lord Higgins
: Does the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor agree that it is the perception of whether the procedures are just that matters so much? As I said on Second Reading, every terrorist organisation wants to provoke governments into repressive measures or apparently repressive measures. I have listened to the debate. I am not a lawyer, and most of this goes way above my head, as I imagine it does those of people in the Muslim communities who are going to be affected by it, but I know that if these procedures are not clear and obviously just, though there may be some short-term advantages in banging up the odd person now and again, the long-term damage in recruiting more people to terrorist causes is likely to be much increased.Lord Garden
: I am sorry to take a different view on this, but I think that the government amendment should go in at this stage. We are in a chaotic position, partly because we are at the same time considering amendments to the Government's new amendments and amendments to the Government's original version. We do not want that to happen again on Report. Although I entirely take the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle, who has an important amendment to be debated, Amendment No. 10, that issue is raised by others that are not pre-empted and it can be raised again by a different amendment on Report. It is important that we have a coherent government Bill on Report. If the government amendments are withdrawn, we will not get that.Lord Goodhart
"A control order may not require a person to provide information or to answer questions".: I shall deal briefly with Amendment No. 30 which stands in my name and that of my noble friend. As the noble Lord, Lord Plant, said, we feel that it is important to spell out on the face of the Bill that no person subject to a control order can be ordered to answer a potentially self-incriminating question."A control order may not require a person to provide information or to answer questions".Lord Goodhart
: I think that the grouping comprises Amendments Nos. 8, 13 and 126. While Amendment No. 8 will be pre-empted, Amendment No. 13 will not. It is also in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle of Bucklow.Lord Goodhart
: We on these Benches have tabled Amendment No. 59, which is technically in a different group but is on the same subject. It is phrased slightly differently, but the purpose is entirely the same as that of the amendment noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. We make it clear that our position is the same as his, and we too feel that Amendment No. 126 does not make sufficiently clear the essential nature of ensuring that, where a prosecution is possible, it happens, and that a control order is a last resort and not the first.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, there is nothing I could usefully add to the searching comments and questions of the noble Earl, Lord Howe. Like him, we do not object to this order.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, will the Government also make representations to the Russian Government that they should not use this as another excuse for further intervention in Georgia? I understand that the Russian Government think that the OSCE border monitoring force over the Pankisi Gorge should be withdrawn but also that the Pankisi Gorge is being used by Chechen separatists and therefore wish to have joint patrols with the Georgian Government on Georgian territory.Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: I am grateful to the noble Lord for giving way. Could he clarify whether the logic of that position is that there would have to be an immediate application for a derogation? If he is suggesting that the same process has to be gone through for both, because some combination of what are considered non-derogating orders might in fact be derogating, it would be impossible within his terms of practicality to deal with the situation unless we immediately had a derogation. That is a situation that many of us would like to avoid.Baroness Hayman
: I finished my legal education in 1969 so I am not the right person to answer that question, although one of the recommendations of the Newton committee was that attention should be given to the possibility of an aggravating factor of association with terrorism being available, as it is in some jurisdictions such as France, for consideration alongside lower-level crimes so that an additional penalty could be imposed. That might satisfy the circumstances of some of those cases. But I think that the evidence for conspiracy would be difficult to bring forward.Baroness Hayman
440: I have considerable sympathy with the case that was put forward by the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle of Bucklow, because it is essential to limit to an irreducible minimum the number of control orders that are issued. That is not to take an absolutist view; I believe that there will be an irreducible minimum of cases where control orders are the only way forward. I welcome the Government's amendment, because there is a danger, once a control order has been made, of the impetus for prosecution being lost. Amendment No. 126 is therefore very valuable.440Baroness Hayman
: I shall enter the debate, but it probably will not help at all. Asking where a bomb is is a completely legitimate question but there are two possible answers. If the answer is, "I know, but I'm not going to tell you", that is a breach and I could find that being a criminal offence acceptable. The problem comes when the suspect says, "I don't know. You've got the wrong person here". If that is not answering the question, and is therefore a criminal offence punishable by five years' imprisonment, it is very difficult. How do you decide which of the two it is?Baroness Hayman
: It could have been averted.Baroness Hayman
: Provoked by the contribution of the noble Lord, Lord Campbell of Alloway, could my noble friend, when he winds up this debate, give some more clarity on the issue of evidence that would be admissible either in a judicial review or in any sort of appeal proceedings generally? I think my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor said clearly that evidence provided under conditions that amounted to torture would not be admissible, and were not admissible by SIAC. My recollection is obviously incorrect because I thought that the SIAC judgment said that, in evidence that was tainted, that factor would go to the weight that they gave that evidence, but not to the point of exclusion of it. I would be grateful for some clarification on that.Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, I was making the point on the education maintenance allowance, which is means-tested based on parental income, but that does not apply to the child benefit element.Baroness Gale
Official Report,"We all know that skills matter, but we also know that the United Kingdom education system has unfortunately suffered from historical underachievement. Although we perform strongly in higher education and have a large number of highly skilled workers compared with other countries, the historic failure to invest in training and education until recently has led to major shortfalls in terms of the intermediate skills that we need to secure sustainable employment and opportunities for all. As a result, far too many young people and adults are prevented by their lack of skills from getting secure, well paid jobs and all the social and personal benefits that go with them".—[Official Report,389: My Lords, I am pleased to speak in this debate and to express my support for the Bill. I know that it will be welcomed by many organisations. It deserves praise because it will put young people and families in a much better financial position, especially those on low incomes and young people who are unable to live at home and are already independent of their families.Official Report,"We all know that skills matter, but we also know that the United Kingdom education system has unfortunately suffered from historical underachievement. Although we perform strongly in higher education and have a large number of highly skilled workers compared with other countries, the historic failure to invest in training and education until recently has led to major shortfalls in terms of the intermediate skills that we need to secure sustainable employment and opportunities for all. As a result, far too many young people and adults are prevented by their lack of skills from getting secure, well paid jobs and all the social and personal benefits that go with them".—[Official Report,389Baroness Gale
: My Lords, perhaps I too can help. Is it not a fact that we now have in front of us a proposal from the Chief Whip that we adjourn for a certain period of time—in other words, a business Motion? That should exclude some of the comments which have been made about the substance of the Bill. The issue before us currently is not the Bill's substance; it is the business Motion moved by my noble friend the Chief Whip.Baroness Lockwood
: No. The next amendment is an amendment to Amendment No. 1.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Baroness Lockwood)
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: My Lords, we are continually concerned about the possibility of problems in Chechnya spilling over into the North Caucasus region. The noble Lord talked about Georgia, and, on the Caucasus region generally, it is important to have fair and transparent political processes as the ultimate goal because we do not believe that military intervention is the answer.Baroness Crawley
: Yes, my Lords, we hope that the Russian Government will take this judgment very seriously and act on its findings.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, it is not for us to say to whom the Russians should talk. We believe that peace in Chechnya will be secured only through a successful political process that is truly representative of the Chechen people. That further underlines the need for early parliamentary elections in Chechnya.
The Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of the Chechen separatist government are currently claiming asylum in the UK.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, we strongly support the proposed round-table talks. There is evidence to link elements of the militants in Chechnya with parts of Al'Qaeda. The thrust of the noble Lord's contribution is absolutely right. We recognise Russia's genuine security concerns in the region. Terrible terrorist attacks have taken place across Russia and have claimed many lives.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, we continue to be committed to co-operating with the Russians to generate concrete solutions to the human rights and socio-economic issues facing Chechnya and the wider region.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, Her Majesty's Government most recently raised the issues facing Chechnya with the Russian Government during Bill Rammell's visit to Moscow on 21 and 22 February to announce the launch of the North Caucasus Education Initiative. As the incoming EU President, we also participated fully in the EU-Russia consultations which took place this week, at which human rights issues in Chechnya were discussed at length.Baroness Crawley
346: My Lords, I very much agree with my noble friend's opening comments about the way in which ongoing problems in Chechnya to do with militants will have a knock-on effect when it comes to recruiting young people. However, the UK regularly underlines with our Russian partners our conviction that acknowledging and addressing the problem of human rights abuses is an important part of building confidence in a lasting settlement in Chechnya.346Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I hope I can reassure the noble Lord on his first point. The British force commander for EUFOR, who took over at the beginning of this year—Major General Leakey—has underlined in his public statements that EUFOR would lead efforts to tackle networks that sheltered and financed war criminals. In the first month of its mission, EUFOR, under the British general, mounted an operation to secure bunker complexes that were believed to have been used to shelter the fugitive, Ratko Mladic.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the European Union-led force, EUFOR, in Bosnia and Herzegovina works in close co-operation with the NATO headquarters in Sarajevo to provide assistance to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. That includes action to detain fugitive persons indicted for war crimes. The Government do not see a need at this stage to widen further the mandate of EUFOR in that respect.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, the noble Lord is absolutely right. Balkan watchers in the House know that conditionality is the key here. If countries in the Balkans want to integrate further with Europe or NATO, it is a prerequisite that they co-operate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, it is a bit of a stretch. I thought that I had tried to cover all the main aspects of the issue, but I am afraid that Sudan did not come into that. However, we believe that the international community should fully co-operate with the International Criminal Court.Baroness Crawley
[The Sitting was suspended from 2.32 to 2.35 p.m.]398: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until 2.35 p.m.[The Sitting was suspended from 2.32 to 2.35 p.m.]398Baroness Andrews
431: I have been in two minds about whether to speak to Amendment No. 17, which I tabled, in this group or to speak to it separately next Monday, but I think that it would be best if I get it over with now.431Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: Exactly.Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: No, it does not satisfy me. I put down that amendment not in order to delete the clauses, but to find out what the arrangements and logistics were for house arrest. I am not satisfied that we should have house arrest unless these matters are taken into consideration. What thought has been given to it, and what arrangements are going to be made? Otherwise, I might want to table another amendment for Report stage.Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: Amendment No. 17 stands in my name, but I shall not press it—at least certainly not today. However, I am not happy. It would be far more honest to put a suspect in prison, whatever the Law Lords may say, so that everyone knows where they are. That would be far more honest.Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
463: Does the noble and learned Lord agree that there is already a law against incitement?
463Baroness D'Souza
: I ask this question respectfully. Help us. Under ordinary terrorism legislation, a man is arrested, his computer is disembowelled, there is swabbing for forensics to see if there were explosives in his house or if he has biological components for explosives, and he can be detained for up to 14 days. What kind of information would not put those processes in train? Why is my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor not saying that we may need a control order after the man has to be released, as a kind of bail condition, with a limit on it?Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
382381: I want to reiterate something I said at Second Reading. I agree with the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd. Some members of opposition parties in seeking to be conciliatory and not to look as though they were being soft on the issue came up with the idea of having the judges replace the Secretary of State. It has the serious risk of tainting our judiciary. I strongly urge that the Committee does not go down that route.382381Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
383: I think that we would all agree on that. I chaired a meeting only recently of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, which was packed with young members of the Muslim community who feel that they are being targeted. Whatever good words are said on Front Benches about this not being a direct assault upon certain communities, that is how it is being perceived and felt. It is perceptions of injustice that lead to terrorism and support for terrorism.383Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
: My Lords—Baroness Trumpington
: Can the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor tell us, regarding the information that would be used in court. whether information obtained under torture from foreign sources can be used?Baroness Falkner of Margravine
: Is the noble and learned Lord planning to have Islamic theologians to assist the courts in these matters?Baroness Falkner of Margravine
jihad: My noble friend Lord Phillips was very delicate, but I shall be rather more direct. Could an imam who was preaching in a sermon at a mosque and referred to the need for, let us say,jihadBaroness Falkner of Margravine
: I take up my noble friend's last point about the benefits of prosecution wherever possible. That remains so. I reassure her yet again that those issues will be looked at, but with the structure of our laws being as it is, with acts preparatory not being included, we cannot prosecute in those cases.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I hear what the noble Lord says. It is incumbent on anyone fulfilling the role of Home Secretary of this country to act reasonably in the discharge of their duty and in taking the decisions under these provisions. My noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor will, I am sure, amplify those answers in relation to the main thrust of the debate. I shall not trespass on his territory in that regard.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
438: I may be able to help in relation to one matter. It may be helpful to noble Lords to know the process that is gone through before my right honourable friend the Home Secretary or someone in his position decides whether a control order would be appropriate. It might help the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle of Bucklow, and my noble friend Lord Plant in relation to the first part to know why it might not be necessary or appropriate to have the Director of Public Prosecutions engaged at that time.438The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: As your Lordships will know, we feel that we have set out the ways in which my right honourable friend the Home Secretary or someone in his position would address this matter. Our first amendment to Clause 1 addresses the way in which these matters will operate and how the procedure will be undertaken. It has never been the case that the minute detail of practice to which I referred earlier has ever been put on the face of any Bill.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Let me make it clear that the Director of Public Prosecutions does not report, as the noble Lord said, to the Home Secretary. When the security services and the police come to make representations, the police will have already consulted the Crown Prosecution Service as to whether prosecutions are possible.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
442: We have all agreed that this is a complex area. If I have been enjoined once, I have been enjoined a thousand times in various debates to get the new set of offences right. They will be difficult; they will have to be carefully considered; and they will have to be closely scrutinised and debated. We have made it clear that we are bringing forward provisions in this Bill which are absolutely necessary right now and need to be put in place speedily—by 14 March. We must consider with
442Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I have indicated that we will bring forward these provisions as soon as the parliamentary timetable allows. I have said on a number of occasions that the Government very much appreciate the urgency of the situation. We hear what is being said about the advantages of bringing forward the offence at the same time as this legislation. That has not been possible, but I assure noble Lords that as soon as the provisions can be brought forward, they will be. This is not a case where we feel that a timeline benefits anyone.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, am I correct in thinking that there has never been a prosecution, even since the 1985 Act? Under the 2003 Act, it is a question of whether you have taken someone abroad to have the procedure carried out. It is difficult to know who has been abroad and for what purpose. Therefore, the only way to discover mutilation would be when a midwife or an obstetrician or some medical person subsequently examined someone. The professional would know according to the age of the woman, particularly if she was young, that it had been done somewhere. What is the actual procedure of reporting? If, as the noble Baroness, Lady Rendell, said, so few people are even aware that the practice is illegal, is there not a need to publicise more widely to the health profession the fact that it is?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Rendell of Babergh
: My Lords, I thank my noble and learned friend for his Answer. Does he agree that part of the reason for there being no prosecutions may be the widespread ignorance among the public and some health professionals that female genital mutilation is against the law? Is he aware that, in research by the Development Support Agency, 50 per cent of those interviewed did not know that female genital mutilation was an illegal practice and 31 per cent of those questioned said that they did not care if it was and still intended to go on doing it? Is the Attorney-General aware also that of 50 midwives attending a recent midwifery conference, fewer than five knew that female genital mutilation was against the law?Baroness Rendell of Babergh
: My Lords, is the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General aware that most of these unfortunate children are taken abroad for the operations and, when they come back here, they can have horrific infections and terrible problems? Can he set up some form of reporting system for such conditions because the women concerned may visit GPs or hospitals?Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, we have done our best to accommodate the Government's perceived need to complete the Bill quickly but the House is being placed in a very difficult position today, not only in regard to the groupings but altogether. I remind your Lordships that the clauses of the Bill were never discussed at all in Committee in another place—they never reached that stage—because of a very tight timetable. So the clauses of the Bill have never been discussed at all.Lord Cope of Berkeley
: The noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd, was kind enough to mention that when the Statement was made on 22 February I drew attention to the danger that I saw in the constitutional standing of the judges if the Bill was to proceed, conferring on the judges the jurisdiction to make an order in the case of derogating orders. From everything that I have heard and considered since, the danger seems substantial.Lord Mayhew of Twysden
415"a requirement on him to report to a specified person at specified times and places",: I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. Would it be clear in the vast majority of cases? The Government are saying under their scheme that it is all right not to have a judge involved in a non-derogating case, but in a derogating case he will be involved.415"a requirement on him to report to a specified person at specified times and places",Lord Mayhew of Twysden
461: Even if he has said so already, would the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor be kind enough to repeat the reason why it is inappropriate to insert the word "intentionally" in the instance put by the noble Duke a few minutes ago; that of someone who produced the textile covering for a fuse that was intended to be used in a terrorist activity? I simply cannot see why it would be inappropriate to require an act to be intentional before the sanctions provided by this Bill comes into operation.
461Lord Mayhew of Twysden
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now again resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My name is also on the amendment. Before we came into the Chamber I was nobbled by a Whip who said to me, "You are not to talk for too long". When I saw my name on the amendment I just thought to myself that you should not have to talk for too long in order to say that it is completely wrong to take away the liberty of a subject and lock him up on the balance of probabilities. I shall now sit down.The Earl of Onslow
: I support as strongly as I can the amendment proposed by the noble Lord, Lord Carlisle. The difficulty is that we are concerned with what are supposed to be civil proceedings. I do not think that that is how they will seem to the suspect who is made subject to these proceedings. The only analogy in the civil law that I can think of—I have mentioned this already—is the non-molestation order in domestic proceedings and the anti-social behaviour order. One only has to mention those orders to see how many million miles they are away from what is proposed under Clause 2.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
cause célèbre484: It is difficult for those of us who are not legally qualified sometimes to follow all the details of these matters, but the comparison between the civil and the criminal standard arose recently in the Church of England when a new clergy discipline measure went through the Synod and was approved by Parliament.cause célèbre484The Lord Bishop of Chester
: I should like to support the amendment on these grounds. I think that the Committee would be very anxious to avoid miscarriages of justice arising out of this Bill if it becomes an Act. We know that miscarriages of justice tend to arise when there is a fear of terrorism or in terrorist cases. Regrettably, there are many examples of that in our fairly recent history, even when the criminal standard of proof was being applied. It must logically be the case that there will be more miscarriages of justice if the standard of proof is probability rather than reasonable certainty. Reasonable certainty is therefore preferable. The consequences in terms of the confidence of any community which may be affected by this Bill will depend on miscarriages of justice, which will happen, being kept to a minimum.Lord Rees-Mogg
485: I have great sympathy with the amendment, which seems at first sight to be right. Perhaps the proponents of the group of amendments could explain to me how they resolve the following problem. As I understand it, the Government have resort to control orders only where they cannot bring a prosecution. They cannot bring a prosecution because they dare not reveal to the defendant the evidence that is before them because it is secret or will imperil their sources. If the defendant—as I shall continue to call him—cannot be told the evidence against him, how on earth can any court or any person ever be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt as, by definition, they cannot hear what the explanation of the accused persons is because he cannot behold the evidence?485Viscount Bledisloe
486: This group of amendments essentially covers three issues. First, it covers the issue that has already been much debated about whether the burden of proof should be on a balance of probabilities or beyond reasonable doubt. Secondly, it covers the question of whether the appropriate test should be a judicial review test or a test on the merits, with the court looking at the Government's assertion that reasonable suspicion is justified. Thirdly, it covers the stage at which the Director of Public Prosecutions ought to intervene to give a view on whether a prosecution should be brought, perhaps making the control order procedure otiose.486Lord Kingsland
: I agree with my noble friend. I shall be brief.Lord Campbell of Alloway
489488487: This is a large and extremely important group, which contains some very important amendments in our names, so it is necessary for me to speak to them now.489488487Lord Goodhart
: I do not want to be tedious on this matter. However, I hope that the noble Lord will forgive me for saying that what he has just said could be interpreted—it would be very ungenerous, I am sure—as possible equivocation. Could he make it absolutely, categorically clear that, speaking from the Liberal Democrat Front Bench, he believes that "beyond reasonable doubt" would be the appropriate terminology, and that it is simply because of time pressures and expediency that he is settling for the alternative?Lord Judd
: As our amendments make clear, we believe that, in the circumstances that we now face, the balance of probabilities is the appropriate standard of proof for non-derogating control orders. We would have proposed and supported the higher standard of proof—in effect, the criminal standard of proof—for orders that amount, not to a restriction, but to a deprivation of liberty under Article 5. For the reasons that I have put forward, we do not intend to move such an amendment now, but my belief and that of my party is that that would be the appropriate standard of proof. If we get a chance to debate the Bill again, we will debate that issue separately and, no doubt, move to a separate vote.Lord Goodhart
: I support my noble friend and wish to make a single point. On the role of the court, under Amendment No. 56, which would replace that of the Home Secretary, I believe that the intensity of pressure on a Home Secretary in exercising the very wide powers under Clause 1, is almost unreasonable for him to have to bear unaided. I think that the public will take the view that the wider the powers given to the Home Secretary under Clause 1 the more he would be expected to exercise them in a way that relieved the public of risk from terrorist activities. That may be unfair but it is a reasonable supposition. Surely, that in turn will put the Home Secretary of the day under enormous strain to be cautious in exercising those powers—cautious, that is, in exercising them rather than in refraining from exercising them. He or she will say, "I have been given by Parliament these unprecedented, enormously wide powers, in the expectation that I will use them to prevent a terrorist attack". If, therefore, there was such an attack, he or she may well come under an unfair, yet very intense, public outrage that those powers had not been used.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
490: I have great sympathy with the point which the noble Lord has just made. As the
490Lord Clinton-Davis
: There are the strongest reasons for the role of the judge being the same in the case of non-derogating control orders as in the case of derogating control orders. I touched on this matter in an intervention last Thursday. I mention it again because the Committee is owed a fuller explanation of the objections to the point that I made.Lord Waddington
491: As a non-lawyer, perhaps I may ask the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, whether it is not the case that, under recent legislation, if the police have reasonable grounds to believe that an individual may be planning to get involved in football-related disorder, that individual may have his passport removed, albeit on a
491Lord Monson
"On some positions, cowardice asks the question 'Is it safe?'. Expediency asks the question: 'Is it politic?'. And Vanity asks the question: 'Is it popular?'. But conscience asks the question 'Is it right?'. And there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular. But one must take it because it is right".: Your Lordships know my position on the Bill. I think that it is wholly misconceived. I would not want to see orders being made on anything less than the criminal burden of proof. However, I shall support the amendments that have been tabled by the opposition parties, simply because they have to be better than the awfulness in the Bill. I would therefore urge Members of the Committee who are concerned about liberty to take the same course. When my noble and learned friend Lord Clinton-Davis—he is a learned friend, but I meant to say noble friend—accidentally referred to these as "derogatory" powers, he was perhaps using the right word."On some positions, cowardice asks the question 'Is it safe?'. Expediency asks the question: 'Is it politic?'. And Vanity asks the question: 'Is it popular?'. But conscience asks the question 'Is it right?'. And there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular. But one must take it because it is right".Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
: I rise to remind noble Lords that the principal amendment is Amendment No. 56, which substitutes a court for the Secretary of State. I also remind noble Lords that it is not just the current Secretary of State, but all the Secretaries of State down the perspective of years for the duration of the Bill, if we do not add a sunset clause. With closer and closer co-operation between the police and Government, the idea of a politician being able to put people that they do not like in prison reminds one of the motto of the National Lottery: "It could be you".Lord Elton
"prosecution followed by conviction is far and away by a long way the best … way of achieving what we want to do".492: Like many other noble Lords I had a chance to speak on Thursday, so I shall be brief. However, since I am going to support the opposition amendment before us, I want to say a few words about my position. I am not opposed to control orders, but they have to be made as compliant as possible with our human rights legislation and with common law ideas of natural justice. These amendments go some way towards achieving that."prosecution followed by conviction is far and away by a long way the best … way of achieving what we want to do".492Lord Plant of Highfield
"Forget human rights … kick out the fanatics".News of the World493: Since I was not able to be present for the Second Reading debate, I should like to make one or two brief points. First, I am no longer a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and therefore I am in a good position to say how pleased the House ought to be with the speed with which the committee has been able to produce not one, but two reports under great pressure of time. I am only sorry that that pressure of time has prevented the committee dealing with all the issues. It is plain that it had to concentrate on addressing only the most important, and I agree entirely with what has been reported."Forget human rights … kick out the fanatics".News of the World493Lord Lester of Herne Hill
quia timet: I strongly support the substitution of "court" for "Secretary of State". Earlier my noble and learned friend Lord Lloyd said that the only two equivalent quia timetLord Donaldson of Lymington
494: I rise to make one brief point. I do not know if the Lord Chancellor had an opportunity to watch the BBC "Question Time"
494Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: Perhaps I may add just one or two sentences, in the light of an observation made by the noble Lord, Lord Phillips. He took me a bit by surprise when he said that he was supporting Amendment No. 56 because it would mean that the judge would be there "to protect", I think he said, the Secretary of State. That was the ground on which he was going to support the amendment. Exactly the opposite is true. Judges are not there to protect Secretaries of State. They are there to stand between Secretaries of State and the individuals, in case individuals happen to be innocent. That is not a ground on which we should support the amendment.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
495: Perhaps I may briefly clarify my point in response to the noble and learned Lord. I was not seeking to protect the Home Secretary,
495Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I would like to make it clear that I think that the House and the country have been rushed into a wholly unsatisfactory position. I appreciate that compromise has become essential, but that compromise is the product of a wholly unnecessary, rushed approach to a significant piece of legislation. I would therefore like to voice my unhappiness. Undue emphasis on speed has brought about the obligation to compromise some of our most serious and lasting values.Lord Ackner
496: I declare an interest as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights.496Lord Judd
: As a non-lawyer, I have been following this debate carefully. On Thursday I was persuaded that it was not good enough for a judge to replace the Secretary of State in giving orders. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, and many others said that judges were unhappy at being made to do the job of the Secretary of State. Then I thought that the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson, had proposed a third way. I am now lost about what happened to the third way. The third way was a good way.Lord Desai
497: This is an incredibly important debate. It follows on from the debate that we had on Thursday. The starting point of the debate and the first issue is whether noble Lords believe that something beyond surveillance and short of the criminal process is required. It is the view of the security services that it is, it is the view of the police that it is, it is the view of the committee of the noble Lord, Lord Newton, that it is. We think it is necessary in the face of the new threat that terrorism poses to this country.497The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: The point has been made many times—perhaps I am being thick—but I do not understand, and the Lord Chancellor has not really explained, how it is, for example, that, as he said at an earlier stage in the debate on this legislation, a curfew restriction would not be a deprivation of liberty.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
498: We draw the line between the two because the European Convention on Human
498Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I thank my noble and learned friend for giving way. Is it not true that it is really difficult to find that distinction when my noble and learned friend has accepted that a combination of non-derogating orders might, even within the technical framework of the European convention, amount together to a deprivation of liberty? I recognise what he says about needing a legal basis, but we are in the process of creating that legal basis in UK law.Baroness Hayman
: If you said, "You cannot go out and see this person and you cannot go out and see that person; you have got to be in your house from six in the evening until midday the next morning", any sensible person would say that constitutes a deprivation of liberty even though it is taken from the Clause 1(3)(c) list identified by the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth. There will not be a great deal of difficulty in identifying what is or is not a deprivation of liberty.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: To my mind, the Lord Chancellor has not answered the question raised by the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth. The noble and learned Lord said that we have to make a distinction because the distinction is clear in the convention itself. But Article 5 states that everyone has the right to liberty. On what basis is the Lord Chancellor saying that a curfew, or a refusal to allow someone to work somewhere or to go to different people's houses, is not a restriction of liberty?Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: Under the jurisprudence of the European Convention on Human Rights it is not a deprivation of liberty. It might well constitute infringements of Articles 7 to 11 but, as I said during the debate on Thursday, that matter does not require a derogation and can be dealt with by the courts. We see as fundamentally different the deprivation of liberty that derogating orders could involve.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
499: When we passed the Terrorism Bill, the Lord Chancellor's colleagues were making
499The Earl of Onslow
: The Bill provides that you can make a derogating order only if you have derogated from the convention. We are not derogating at the moment. If any order constitutes a deprivation of liberty, it will be struck down by the courts. So we are providing judicial protection against any deprivation of liberty.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. I hope he will bear with me and my question because I do not understand the way in which he is reading the Bill on the key issue of judicial control.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
500: I understand the question. The noble Lord is absolutely right that I said on Thursday in considering the "judicial review" basis that we propose in the Bill that it is our intention that the
500Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I hope that the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor will accept that there is no greater supporter of the European convention than I; nor any greater admirer of the jurisprudence deriving from it. I hope that he will also accept that underlying my noble friend Lord Forsyth's argument is the belief that it is fundamentally misconceived to found a distinction on the question of compliance or otherwise with the convention between cases where we have to go under the more onerous—if we may call it that—procedure and cases where we go under the simpler procedure subject to judicial review.Lord Brittan of Spennithorne
: I entirely accept that there is no wanner admirer of the jurisprudence of the ECHR than the noble Lord, Lord Brittan. I also agree entirely with what he says about the need for an understandable basis for which one can draw a distinction that can be popularly understood.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
501: If eventually the Committee comes to the conclusion that there is no difference between derogating and non-derogating orders, will the
501Lord Clinton-Davis
: I have put my arguments in relation to the distinction between derogating and non-derogating orders. For reasons that I am almost completely unable to understand I find no support for my arguments in the Committee. It is for the Committee to decide whether it agrees or disagrees with my arguments.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: On Second Reading I gave the example of an order that deprived someone of their right to work: he had only one place where he could work; he was ordered not to go to work; and his passport was removed by another part of the order. In ordinary parlance the ordinary man would say that he had been deprived of his liberty substantially: he cannot carry out his work and he is really a captive.Lord Neill of Bladen
: I am interested in the noble Lord's example. There are people who come to this country legitimately who are legitimately prevented from working. I wonder whether they would regard themselves—as the noble Lord says they would in common parlance—as deprived of their liberty. I do not think that they would. Other rights under Articles 7 to 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights would be infringed, but under our proposals the court is able to weigh up the risk that they pose against intrusion in relation to their rights.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, there are existing guidelines and procedures which civil servants must follow in communicating with the public which ensure that information provided is objective, explanatory and not biased. The same guidelines also apply to all work that external agencies undertake under contract with government departments. Civil servants will, of course, adhere to any future guidance that is produced in advance of the referendum on the EU Constitutional Treaty.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for his response but confess that I am not fully satisfied. Does he accept that, even given the trust we have in our civil servants, this is an area where it is very difficult for people to produce a purely factual explanation of the European Constitution without portraying some of their views in the document? Given that, will the noble Lord consider that while the Government are entitled to publish White Papers, for public information—for leaflets and pamphlets distributed at large—it might be sensible to set up a committee of senior Cross-Bench Members to ensure that the content is fair and properly represents both sides of the argument?Lord Blackwell
: My Lords, knowing that this Question would be asked today, I reread the document, and the shorter document. Aside from my fear of dropping them on my foot, in general I think it would be hard to fault their factual quality. They provide solid background information and, I think on the most objective reading, could cause no one to take exception.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree—Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords—Lord Barnett
: Order!Noble Lords
Telegraph472: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that an exercise such as this, relating to the
Telegraph472Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords, it is vital that the information provided is widely disseminated, objective and has solid reasoning behind it. Otherwise, why would we be engaged in this exercise at all? It is extremely important that nobody should feel, in trying to achieve balance, that they were being driven into silence. I hope that our broadcast media, let alone our print media, feel that.Lord Triesman
: My Lords—Lord Hannay of Chiswick
: My Lords—Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, does the noble Lord recall Ministers saying the other day that not a penny would be spent on pro-constitution propaganda in this country by the European Commission? The European Commission is, of course, using taxpayers' money—that is where it eventually comes from—yet it seems that it is continuing to spend money in this country, directly and indirectly. How will this be stopped? How will the Ministers' undertaking be fulfilled? Will all the institutions that receive these very large sums have to pay them back?Lord Howell of Guildford
: My Lords, in advance of the referendum process, I have no doubt that all sorts of bodies will campaign for what they believe is right. Noble Lords on the opposition Benches a re at the forefront of doing so. The Government have no wish to see any money spent inappropriately. The full list of legitimate expenditures during the course of the referendum campaign—the purposes for which money can be spent during the campaign—have been set out very clearly in the definition of referendum expenses. That will have to be the template with which the independent organisations that argue for a "Yes" or a "No" vote will have to proceed.Lord Triesman
: My Lords—Lord Hannay of Chiswick
: My Lords—Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: Cross Bench!Noble Lords
: My Lords, there really will be enough time for both questions. I suggest that we hear from the Liberal Democrat Bencthes and then the Cross Benches.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
473: My Lords, will the noble Lord acknowledge that the facts of the European Union,
473Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord. Not only have we managed to achieve those benefits but I believe we have achieved them while remaining independent nation states. The Government's position throughout the process will be to ensure that we are a successful nation state. That is our great strength in Europe, and the combination of European nation states is the great and additional strength that we enjoy.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does the Minister not agree that all the evidence is that the people of this country are very far from having enough information yet to make an informed choice? Does he therefore agree that it is the duty of the Government to fill that gap? Will he reject the suggestion of the noble Lord, Lord Blackwell. that civil servants are incapable of writing objective prose?Lord Hannay of Chiswick
: My Lords. I hope that I have said that I believe that the civil servants have written extremely objective documents. It is important that they should do so because it is plain from most of the polling evidence that people remain. unfortunately, without a lot of key information, and we have to fill that gap in information and knowledge. The brief guide to the European Union—the smaller document—produces a rather straightforward account of the European Union and of the benefits that we have received from membership, all of which I fully accept are key facts in people's decisions.Lord Triesman
: My Lords—Lord Barnett
: My Lords—Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Barnett, should speak next.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, would my noble friend join with me in welcoming all unbiased reports on the European Union constitution in due course? Does he think it would be helpful if everyone issuing statements and reports should indicate that they have read all 511 pages of the treaty and 493 pages of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Explanatory Notes?Lord Barnett
474: My Lords, if anybody made such a declaration I would probably be the first to disbelieve them. Having said that, it is important that there is good, strong, factual information and I genuinely believe that, if you look at the documents, that is what you find. The Civil Service has done us proud in the work that it has done. Of course, after that there will be strongly held views: people will engage in the most
474Lord Triesman
HansardHansard: My Lords, neither the records of the relevant debates in HansardHansardThe Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
Official Report: My Lords, what on earth has been going on ill the Home Office? Does the Minister recollect that on 16 November last, she told me in a Written Answer that the 1795 Act was still in force and subsequently had to correct that? Now her officials have written to members of the public saying that they have no idea why the 1795 Act was repealed. It seems that they are incapable of going to the Library, finding the Official ReportLord Tebbit
: My Lords, of course, I apologise for the fact that the 1795 Act was incorrectly referred to. I remind noble Lords that it is not every day that the 1300 Act, the 1870 Act or those other Acts are looked at. There was a mistake. I humbly ask the House's pardon for this terrible mistake that was made by me through that dreadful, inaccurate Answer.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, does the Minister recognise that the 1795 Act was the terrorism Act of its day? It took rather a long time to repeal something that was inspired by public hysteria about the threat of the French and introduced by a repressive Conservative administration under William Pitt the Younger.Lord Maclennan of Rogart
475: My Lords, some might so describe it, but I could not possibly comment. However, the Treason Act 1795 was looked at again in
475Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, was the 1351 Act one that applied to the United Kingdom? If not, I wonder why it should be an important part of the law of the United Kingdom today.Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, we are grateful that that Act was followed by a number of other Acts that sought to bring it into force. To help your Lordships, there was the Treason Act 1351, the Treason Act 1702, the Treason Act 1842 and the Treason and Felony Act 1848, which all amplified our splendid common law offence, so Scotland is safe.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I suppose that this could not possibly have anything to do with the fact that European Union Commissioners affirm an oath of allegiance to the European Union. If they do so, they swear allegiance to somebody other than Her Majesty the Queen, which I understand would in itself be treasonable.Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, I hesitate as always to give any disappointment to the noble Lord, but I have to tell him that the EU constitution is, unfortunately, not a treasonable document.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, my ministerial colleague, Stephen Ladyman, announced last August that we would be developing a Green Paper on the future of adult social care. I expect the Green Paper to be published shortly. The Government announced on 3 March an extra £60 million for partnerships for older people projects. They will provide a range of schemes that maintain and enhance the independence of older people.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
476: My Lords, I thank the Minister very much for that reply and I look forward with interest to the Green Paper. I hope that it will cover all the various things that he mentioned. In particular. I would like to draw his attention to the importance of highlighting the need for people to have low-level social care. To retain independence it is often the small tasks—shopping or, in health terms, nail cutting, tasks involving household gadgets or changing lightbulbs, which involve
476Baroness Greengross
: My Lords, we want to ensure that there is a proper balance between prevention and other activities in the area of intensive care support. What services a person needs to allow him or her to live happily and sakly in their own home rather than end up in hospital or a care home are specific to each individual, as I think the noble Baroness is saying. I accept that tasks such as shopping and cleaning can enhance a person's well-being, improve their quality of life and avoid social exclusion. Through the Green Paper we want to try to encourage councils to give due balance to those issues.Lord Warner
: My Lords, is it not a fact that local authorities have usually supplied these services for people and that that has worked well, and that a great many voluntary bodies have been involved? By using volunteers, particularly older volunteers, one is giving them an occupation which in itself can be beneficial. Perhaps the most useful social service of all has been our freedom passes to get us around because that keeps people mobile longer than anything.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, I am sure that everyone in the House pays tribute to the Mayor of London and his freedom passes, which I am sure have benefited a number of Members of this House. I also pay tribute to the work done by voluntary organisations. The private sector, as well as the public sector, has also provided some of the support services that are needed by older people.Lord Warner
: My Lords, will the Green Paper include among those who might be eligible for reimbursement members of an individual's own family if they are able to provide lower-level social care? I hope that he can answer that.Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: My Lords, I am afraid that the noble Baroness will have to wait for the Green Paper to be published. I am not at liberty to anticipate that. Eligibility criteria for adult social care are a matter to be determined by local councils.Lord Warner
New Vision for Adult Social Care: My Lords, the noble Baroness's Question would have been dear to the heart of the late Lord Sheppard, who was a former Member of these Benches. Do the Government agree that the New Vision for Adult Social CareThe Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
477: My Lords, I am sure the whole House will want to pay tribute to the contribution that
477Lord Warner
: My Lords, my noble friend referred to the importance of integration of services across various agencies and the voluntary sector. While not seeking to anticipate the announcement by the Government, does he agree that there may be a case for a stronger role being given to the health service in taking leadership to ensure that there is consistency of approach across all these agency boundaries?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
Better health in old age,: My Lords, we will, of course, have to wait for the Green Paper but I am sure that my noble friend has read the report by Professor Ian Philp, Better health in old age,Lord Warner
: My Lords—The Countess of Mar
: My Lords—Lord Taylor of Blackburn
: My Lords, it is the turn of the Liberal Democrats.Baroness Amos
New Vision jar Adult Social care: My Lords, will the Minister acknowledge that the engagement of older people in social activity reduces the likelihood of their institutionalisation by almost 50 per cent? Will he therefore ensure that the New Vision jar Adult Social careBaroness Neuberger
: My Lords, as I said in my initial reply, I am sure that the Green Paper will tackle the wide range of services that older people need to live fulfilling and independent lives. I have four pages of examples of good local practice, with which I shall not detain the House. However, one that stands out is the Asian Elders Project in Barnet which helps to support independent living, and a number of others which help people to maintain their independence through physical exercise.Lord Warner
: My Lords, is it not a sad reflection on society that we are having to depend on government and organisations to provide services such as shopping and replacing light bulbs which should be provided either by relatives or by good neighbours? What is the noble Lord doing to foster genuine good neighbourliness and to encourage relations to look after their own people?The Countess of Mar
: My Lords, that is a little unfair to the many people up and down the country in all kinds of families who give a huge amount of support to their families and older relatives. Carers are a good example of that. I pay tribute to the work that they do in looking after older people and providing support in that regard. The Government have given support through direct payments, the £325 million for the Carers Grant and in other areas to support families as they look after members of an increasingly ageing population.Lord Warner
: My Lords, regardless of any Green Paper that the Government might publish and of any help given to voluntary organisations, I am sure that the House and the Minister will agree that there is nothing better than a neighbour looking after a neighbour.Lord Taylor of Blackburn
: My Lords, I absolutely agree. I am old enough to remember the good neighbour scheme introduced by a Labour government in the mid-1970s.Lord Warner
: My Lords, following the informal meeting of NATO defence Ministers on 9 and 10 February, NATO announced that the package of resources needed for stage 2 of the planned expansion of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan has been completed. Italy, Spain, Lithuania and the US are providing the core resources.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, I welcome that reply although much remains to be done, not least providing security ahead of the parliamentary elections. Given the UN's declaration that Afghanistan is in danger of becoming a narcotic state, should NATO, and specifically Britain, with responsibility to sort this out not now be more aggressive in the vital task of eliminating poppy crops?Lord Astor of Hever
479: My Lords, we are very aware of the danger of the development of a narco-state. NATO
479Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, would my noble friend agree with me if I suggested that we are long since past the time when we should be worried about the development of a narco-economy? It is there; the report we received last week indicated that 50 per cent of the gross national product of Afghanistan is now coming from narcotic crops. Does she further agree that that is now a matter of great urgency for this country, because we are at the end of the supply route and much of that narcotic comes into this country illegally, and that we must now take urgent action in this area?Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend that urgent action is required. That is why the UK fully supports the 2005 Afghan counter-narcotics implementation plan. My noble friend will know that that means building up institutions, having a proper information campaign, assisting the development of alternative livelihoods—it is no use talking about eradication unless we give people an alternative Livelihood—strengthening interdiction and law enforcement, supporting the criminal justice system and taking action on eradication.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, how do the Government plan to carry that out? What percentage of Afghanistan is controlled by ISAF and the central government and what percentage is patrolled and controlled not by them but by warlords who are pushing the production of opium?Lord Redesdale
: My Lords, as the noble Lord will know, ISAF's control was mainly in Kabul for the first year or so after the conflict. It has now spread to the north and west of the country, which was stage 1. Stage 2, to which I referred in my Answer to the noble Lord, Lord Astor, involves our setting up the west as an ISAF area where forces under ISAF will be able to assist the provincial reconstruction teams, NGOs and non-military personnel that are trying to ensure that the country is reconstructed. Stage 3 will concern the far more worrying areas in the south and east.Baroness Crawley
480: My Lords, do the Government recognise the case for decriminalising all drugs on the basis that the number of extra people who would die from drug abuse might well be smaller than the number of those who die from drug-related crime? It would also cut the cash flow of organised crime, and
480Lord Marlesford
: My Lords, that is wide of the Question about provincial reconstruction teams and military operations in Afghanistan. I am sure that, if he wishes, the noble Lord can table a Question on our domestic policy, which has been made clear many times from this Dispatch Box.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, does the Minister remember that there was some ambiguity about the objectives of the provincial reconstruction teams and whether they were military or humanitarian forces? Can she confirm that this has been clarified and standardised under the NATO mandate?The Earl of Sandwich
: My Lords, I remember those early discussions about whether provincial reconstruction teams were civilian or military. I particularly remember the discussions we had in this House about the relationship between the military within the reconstruction teams and NGOs. I hope that that has now been clarified. I understand that there is a good relationship between the UK-led teams and NGOs and construction teams.Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, does the Minister think that the UK should be doing more? Seven of our allies are providing bigger contributions to ISAF, including Belgium, Italy and Spain. Will she convey the thanks of the UK Government to France and Germany, which continue to provide more than a quarter of the total assets for ISAF?Lord Garden
: My Lords, we contribute a military force of more than 600 people to ISAF. We also have six GR 7 Harrier aircraft based at Kandahar airport that assist ISAF and the coalition forces in Afghanistan. We are committed to helping the Afghan Government to provide their own security because building up Afghanistan's national army and police force is the most important part of security.Baroness Crawley
: May I take the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor back to the point of judicial control by means of judicial review? I am not boasting, but I have probably presided over a divisional court for longer than anyone in the Committee, because I did it for nine months. It was concerned mostly not with Home Secretaries or central government, but with local government: with problems such as whether proper priority was being given to particular classes of people seeking housing.Lord Donaldson of Lymington
502: There is probably no one in the Committee who has presided more often over divisional courts than the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson. The question of how the ECHR is played into this is a matter for the legislation. As I made it clear on Thursday, the courts would be able to
502Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Before the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor sits down, does he understand the difficulty that some of us face in following the distinction he makes between derogating and non-derogating orders? Although some of the proposed orders may not appear to affect freedoms guaranteed under Article 5 they appear to affect other freedoms protected by the convention: Article 10 on freedom of speech and Article 11 on freedom of association and the property freedoms, which would be interfered with most severely. How can that distinction seriously be drawn?Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: I accept completely that they could engage the other articles and infringe prima facie those other articles; but those are qualified rights. No derogation is required to engage or infringe them so long as there is a legitimate aim pursuant to which they are infringed and proportionate steps are taken.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for attempting to answer my difficulties. However, is not Article 5 also a qualified right, so there is no distinction to be drawn in that way?Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: No, the courts would have access to all the evidence. The issue in such cases is not whether the court has access to the evidence, but whether the citizen who makes the application sees all the material. That is the reason for the special advocate procedure. So the court would have sufficient material to judge whether there was a legitimate aim against which the order had been made, whether the steps were proportionate and what was the level of risk.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
503: Has the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor—a Labour Lord Chancellor—noticed that among the critics of this Bill are a former Home Secretary on the Opposition Benches and members of the judiciary, such as the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson, none of whom could be considered lily-livered liberals? Has he
503Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
Morning Star: We have to do what we think is right. We think that it is right to seek to strike a balance between protecting people from terrorism and, at the same time, preserving people's civil liberties. I have noticed the widespread expression of views. As someone said to me the other day, "It is a pretty pass when the headline in the Morning StarLord Falconer of Thoroton
: I was not present at Second Reading as I was fulfilling other duties. However, have I understood correctly that the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor is to table another amendment to institute what he said about the scope of appeal and bringing in proportionality? As I understand it, there is only the judicial review standard on the face of the Bill. Secondly, the importance of what is happening here this week will echo around Europe. We are talking about the European Convention on Human Rights and what we enact into UK law will be watched very closely in the rest of Europe.Baroness Ludford
: I believe that that is entirely right. On the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Lester, I believe that that is already in the Bill. However, I want to make it clear that, in relation to a non-derogating order, the court can consider that proportionality is a legitimate aim in relation to the convention, as I said on Thursday. If that is not in the Bill, the Bill will be amended to achieve that aim.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The noble and learned Lord can take that position only for the present Government. I return to my earlier point: we are legislating for the future, unless we have a sunset clause.Lord Elton
504: I respectfully submit that that position is one that any sensible government would take in relation to these orders. When considering whether a matter is proportionate, the court would be able to say that it would not be proportionate if prosecution were possible. So in practice the court would have to see material and ask, "Why don't you prosecute?", and if there were no satisfactory answer, it would not be a proportionate order.504Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: If the Home Secretary thinks that Mohammed al-Smith wants to do, or is planning to do, something, and he has talked to others about doing something nasty, can the noble and learned Lord explain why that is not conspiracy? If it is only one man dreaming, the Home Secretary cannot possibly get inside his mind. If there is evidence that someone wants to do something very nasty, I do not understand how he has not, by the very nature of the situation, committed a criminal offence or a common law offence of conspiracy.The Earl of Onslow
"Accordingly a requirement of proof will frustrate the policy and objects of the Act … the target of the Act's policy includes those who belong to loose, amorphous, unorganised groups … the choice is apt to strike the target. Proof would not be".505"the whole concept of a standard of proof is not particularly helpful in a case such as the present. In a criminal or civil trial in which the issue is whether a given event happened, it is sensible to say that one is sure that it did, or that one thinks it more likely than not that it did. But the question in the present case is not whether a given event happened but the extent of future risk. This depends upon an evaluation of the evidence of the appellant's conduct against a broad range of facts with which they may interact. The question of whether the risk to national security is sufficient to
505: There are two problems with that. On the previous occasion I gave the following example: if a foreign intelligence organisation has arrested someone, interrogated him and acquired information, that information will almost certainly not be available to an English court, but it might be regarded by sensible people as reliable. Secondly, there may be information that does not constitute the high standard of proof that is required in a criminal court, but, quite legitimately, it may give rise to a particular risk. Thirdly, someone could be preparing for a terrorist act which does not constitute a criminal offence at the moment but, legitimately, it gives rise to a possible risk. Those are three areas where control orders could provide practical assistance but where prosecution would not be possible."Accordingly a requirement of proof will frustrate the policy and objects of the Act … the target of the Act's policy includes those who belong to loose, amorphous, unorganised groups … the choice is apt to strike the target. Proof would not be".505"the whole concept of a standard of proof is not particularly helpful in a case such as the present. In a criminal or civil trial in which the issue is whether a given event happened, it is sensible to say that one is sure that it did, or that one thinks it more likely than not that it did. But the question in the present case is not whether a given event happened but the extent of future risk. This depends upon an evaluation of the evidence of the appellant's conduct against a broad range of facts with which they may interact. The question of whether the risk to national security is sufficient to
505Lord Falconer of Thoroton
506: I intervene because I am now hopelessly bewildered by what I have just heard. I thought the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor said a little while ago that the court would effectively be in the same position as the Strasbourg court; that is, it would look at the necessity and proportionality of a restriction on a fundamental right or freedom. That is what I thought he said, and he nods.506Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: No, that is completely wrong. The test is, "What is the risk?". We are talking about—convention rights are engaged here—the level of risk for the future, which cannot be proved by conventional burdens. If the degree of risk is sufficient, the steps that can be taken can be justified. There is no difficulty in asking oneself, "Is the risk shown by the Secretary of State"—and he has to show that risk—"such that the steps he has taken are proportionate and justified'?".Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor has cited judicial authorities and general arguments in favour of the proposition that, when risk is being considered, the burden of proof is an irrelevant and improper consideration. If that is so, on what grounds of principle—as opposed to political expediency. which may be convenient for us—does he then introduce the concept of the balance of probabilities in the most serious cases, where he wishes to take the most draconian measures?Lord Brittan of Spennithorne
: Because they are the most serious cases, and because depriving someone of their liberty, which requires a derogation from the European convention—of which the noble Lord has said that he is second to none in his admiration—requires a special step to be taken. That is the view we take, which is why we have introduced this additional measure.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is not just a question of a "special step". A moment ago, the noble and learned Lord was arguing that the whole question of risk was completely divorced from the question of the balance of probabilities. Whether or not it is a special consideration, it is an illogical step to be producing, even though it may be politically convenient. Surely the right step is to accept the argument of the balance of probabilities for both types of order.Lord Brittan of Spennithorne
507: No. I respectfully submit to the Committee that we must recognise that the further up the spectrum we go, the more both the judicial protections, and therefore the protections of the citizen, need to be. That is the argument why we must insert a very high hurdle before we deprive someone of their liberty, and that is entirely appropriate.
507Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I do not wish to extend things unnecessarily, but can I press the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor to say a little more about what the test of balance of probabilities actually means? He has just told us that it will be "very difficult" to get an order on the balance of probabilities. To a lay person like myself, that balance could be 51 per cent one way and 49 per cent the other, which sounds different from being "very difficult".The Lord Bishop of Chester
: Regarding the balance of probabilities, the test is defined as whether it is more likely than not that the suspect is or has been a terrorist. The courts have said in other contexts that the more serious the allegation you make against someone, the more you have to prove it is more likely than not that they are a terrorist. A very serious allegation is being made, and it is for the court to determine how they would construe it. The flexibility means that the standard of proof can go not down but, rather, goes up. If the right reverend Prelate was wondering whether, in these circumstances, the balance of probabilities is closer to "beyond reasonable doubt" than it would be in other cases. I cannot say so for certain, but that would be the trend.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Before the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor sits down, and while he is in the mode of helping laymen, I will just return to the point about the curfew, where someone is prevented from going out at certain times.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
508: It is for the Committee to decide whether it is "strange" that, if the Home
508Lord Falconer of Thoroton
509: When I rose to my feet an hour and forty minutes ago to move a modest amendment of a few words, changing the burden of proof in one area of the Bill, I did not realise it was going to lead to such a wide-ranging debate. Much of that debate has not even referred to the burden of proof on which my amendment was based, but has gone on instead to the whole issue of whether those orders that require derogation and those that do not should nevertheless be dealt with in the same way. I had thought that that would be the effect of the first amendment in the next group, which I tabled, but as we have obviously had the debate on both of them, I will merely say on that issue that the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor's explanations are wholly unimpressive.509Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
[Amendment No. 60 not moved.](c) has been informed by the Director of Public Prosecutions that there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity."Line 8, at end insert"; and
(c) has been informed by the Director of Public Prosecutions that there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity."Line 4, leave out "has reasonable grounds for suspecting" and insert "is satisfield on the balance of probilities"moved, as amendment to Amendment No. 55, Amendment Nos. 58 and 59:
[Amendment No. 60 not moved.](c) has been informed by the Director of Public Prosecutions that there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity."Line 8, at end insert"; and
(c) has been informed by the Director of Public Prosecutions that there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity."Line 4, leave out "has reasonable grounds for suspecting" and insert "is satisfield on the balance of probilities"Lord Goodhart
[Amendment No. 62 not moved.]Line 9, leave out subsection (A2)moved, as an amendment to Amendment No. 55, Amendment No. 61:
[Amendment No. 62 not moved.]Line 9, leave out subsection (A2)Lord Goodhart
: If Amendment No. 63 is agreed to, I cannot call Amendments Nos. 64 to 79 on the ground of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Carter)
: I should like to say very briefly in support of my noble friend Lord Onslow that, listed with Amendment No. 63, is Amendment No. 93, which goes even further than Amendment No. 63. It would require the High Court to set the limit on all derogating control orders. When we come to Amendment No. 93, if the Committee is inclined to vote, it seems to me that that amendment of my noble friend Lord Onslow is perhaps preferable to the one that the noble Lord has just moved.Lord Kingsland
: I am totally at the convenience of the Committee. I do not know whether the Committee would like to discuss Amendments Nos. 63 and 93 together as a principle. I accept that Amendment No. 93 goes further than Amendment No. 63 but the principle is in effect the same, which is that the amount of time that an order applies to someone should be set by a judge and for a defined period. I do not know whether the Committee would like to discuss Amendment No. 93 now or when we reach it. I am completely at the disposal of the Committee.The Earl of Onslow
: Amendments Nos. 63 and 93 are grouped. Therefore, I respectfully suggest that it makes sense for me to respond to the amendment moved by the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, bearing in mind that no other Member of the Committee has risen in that regard.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Oh!Noble Lords
514: How could I have not noticed the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland? I humbly beg his pardon. I meant no other Member of the Committee than a Front Bench Member. I tend to be dismissive of both our Front Benches as not really being the true contributors to a debate until a Member of the Back Benches rises.514Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: But still it is open to the Minister to allow the person to whom the control order is applied not to know the overall length of how long he is being either deprived of or having his liberty limited. That cannot be right. It is what double jeopardy was put into place to stop—allowing people to go on playing what I believe used to be called "cat and mouse" orders in Ireland; that is, locking people up, then releasing them, then locking them up again, then releasing them and then locking them up. It is quite unsatisfactory. However, there is so much which is unsatisfactory about this Bill that I suppose it is asking too much to try to get one small part put right. I note that not many other Members of the Committee wanted to speak to this amendment. However, I see that someone now wishes to do so and therefore I shall sit down.The Earl of Onslow
: I am grateful to my noble friend. I have every sympathy with what he is aiming at but I wonder about the practicalities of the matter. What circumstances would change to make it safe—if it had been unsafe—to let such an individual who had an order made against him out on to the streets again? For example, according to the Irish justice Minister, who is a significant figure, Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness are members of the Army Council of the IRA. I should have thought that would give rise to reasonable grounds for suspicion that they were associated with terrorist activities. If the Irish Minister is right, that has been the case for many years. Presumably, one would not want just to take them in for a few months and then let them back out on to the streets again, where, according to the Irish justice Minister—we do not know about these things—they might be involved in plotting anything from a murder to a bank robbery. Therefore, my noble friend might wonder whether he is absolutely right on this occasion.Lord Tebbit
: I shall have a very small bet with my noble friend Lord Tebbit that the one thing that the Government will not do is put a derogation order or a non-derogation order on anyone who they think might have the slightest connection whatever with the Irish situation. That is another reason why this Bill seems to me a bad Bill in that it will be used extremely selectively against people who are considered weak enough to have these draconian rules applied to them. However, having said what I have said, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.The Earl of Onslow
516: In relation to these amendments I would like to reiterate the comments I made in relation to the previous group of amendments and add to them. The Secretary of State can revoke, or apply to the court to revoke, a control order at any time if it ceases to be necessary, or he may modify, or seek modification of, any of the obligations imposed. It is open to the subject of the order to apply at any time to the Secretary of State, or to court, as the case may be, for a revocation of the order or for conditions to be varied, if he believes that circumstances have changed. Given the ongoing, active monitoring that will be involved in control orders, we do not believe that a modification to the drafting in the way suggested by the amendment is necessary. Furthermore, it would be likely to hinder optimal operational effectiveness.516Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: In a situation where evidence emerges well before the six-month review that throws doubt on the evidence on which the control order was made, do the Government have in mind any provision that would enable a rapid review of that case to take place? Clearly, there could be indications that the original evidence was unsound.Baroness Williams of Crosby
: That is why I said that there would be a review of the situation and that the Home Secretary could revoke the order before it expired, or application could be made to the court, now that we have passed Amendment No. 56, indicating that there had been a change of circumstances that merited such a revocation or the amendment of certain of the conditions. It may be that conditions change and indicate that some of the limitations, or restrictions imposed by way of conditions, are no longer merited. The idea is to have the certainty of an initial period of six or 12 months and then allowing flexibility for revocation because of change of circumstances.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I thank the Minister for that explanation. As I understand it, the provision in Clause 4(1)(c)—that the derogating control order may not be renewed—means that the order may not be rolled forward, but that a new order must be brought in. In the light of that, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.The Duke of Montrose
: I beg to move.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
Division called.: The Question is that Amendment No. 79 shall be agreed to. As many as are of that opinion will say, "Content". To the contrary, "Not-Content". Clear the Bar.Division called.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: I oppose the amendment. It is a very good example of how liberties can be eroded without anybody noticing. It is a basic rule of English law that when a man is arrested he is entitled to be told what he has wrong—that is, the offence that he has committed. That has always been the English law. It was put in statutory form in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act. Not surprisingly, it is also law under the European convention as enshrined in the Human Rights Act.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
ex proprio motu523: This clause on arrest and detention pending a derogating control order has caused some worries north of the Border. The clause appears to allow a constable to arrest and detain an individual if the Secretary of State has made an application to the court for a derogating control order in respect of that individual and the constable considers that the arrest and detention is necessary to ensure that he or she is available to be given notice of the order if it is made. They will have to wait until a letter is delivered or until something similar occurs.ex proprio motu523The Duke of Montrose
: Will the Minister explain how the amendment relates to Amendment No. 80? Under Amendment No. 80 when the Secretary of State applies to the court there is an immediate hearing. If the court thinks fit, it can make an immediate control order. So, if the person is thought to be likely to blow up the Houses of Parliament that evening, the court can make a control order to put him under house arrest. That will detain him and render him available to have the notice served on him.Viscount Bledisloe
524: I voted against the Government on the previous issue; I rise to support the Government on this amendment. There is a hole
524Lord Morris of Aberavon
: I find myself slightly concerned with the amendment. I understand entirely and agree with what the noble and learned Lord, Lord Morris, said. Clearly, there must be a power to arrest someone where in the end there will be no ability to try him. I realise therefore that he cannot be told on his arrest the evidence on which he has been arrested or the sources from which that evidence comes.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
525"the constable considers that the individual's arrest and detention is necessary to ensure that he is available",: Perhaps the noble Baroness could afford some elucidation on subsection (1)(b) of the new clause. I apologise for not having given her notice of my inquiry, which may mean that she has to write to me. Subsection (1)(b) says that a constable may arrest and detain an individual if—and this is the point—
525"the constable considers that the individual's arrest and detention is necessary to ensure that he is available",Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: The noble Lord, Lord Carlisle, asked the question which I was almost too shy to ask. What does the constable say to the person whom he has been told to arrest? After all, if a constable came to me and said, "I am sorry, Lord Tebbit, you are under arrest", naturally I would say, "What for?". What does he then say—"I'm afraid I cannot tell you"? What exactly does he say? What are the appropriate words? It would be very interesting to know. I have to assure the Committee, and particularly those Members who are both noble and learned, that the average man in the street thinks that under these circumstances the constable would say to him, "I'm arresting you on suspicion of being involved in a conspiracy to cause explosions", or something of that kind, and take him down to the station. By the time the procedure had gone on for a few hours, days and so on, the order would either be made or not.Lord Tebbit
526: I shall deal with the mischief first. It is likely that in the majority of cases an application would be made before the court and the court would make an order in relation to a person who has been identified as subject to a control order.526Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I am grateful to the noble Baroness. I understand exactly the circumstances that she is describing. The chap is going up the steps of the aeroplane and you believe that he has a bomb that will blow up the aeroplane, so why on earth not arrest him on suspicion of being about to blow up an aeroplane? That surely is an offence for which someone could be arrested. I imagine that it is. There must be something somewhere in the law. Having arrested him, you could then investigate him for a while. Surely it does not need this Bill to arrest somebody who is on the way up the steps of an aeroplane with a bomb in his pocket.Lord Tebbit
: That may not be the best example, but there are all sorts of other examples, such as people having information. The important point that I wished to make is that it may be necessary to stop and/or detain that person to enable due process to take place and come before the court. We are contemplating the situation of the new procedure when the Home Secretary will not of his own motion he able to so confine or restrain a person, but it will be incumbent on him to apply to a judge so to do. Therefore, certain logistical realities may arise in those circumstances, and it is for that lacuna that we seek to provide.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
527: Before the noble Baroness sits down, surely in the example that she gave, the constable is arresting the person not so that he is available to give notice, but to prevent him committing the crime. I can understand that.527Viscount Bledisloe
: I am bound at this stage by the expression of the Committee' view. The Government do not propose to so extend the power, but we shall have to reflect on the consequences of the vote this afternoon and consider the position further. But we do not at the moment propose to so extend the provisions.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
528: The noble Baroness has not quite dealt with my point. I see the need, but equally
528Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: Before my noble friend sits down, I want to say that I am not a lawyer, but I have listened carefully to the debate. If a policeman arrested me, as the noble Lord, Lord Tebbit, said, my first question would be, "What am I being arrested for?".Baroness Gibson of Market Rasen
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. She should have no fear that I differ with her on the need for a provision to ensure that a terrorist or suspected terrorist does not disappear. Of course we all agree with that. But it is a mark of the confusion, the rush and the haste with which this legislation is being brought forward not only that this amendment could have been tabled at this late stage—after all, it should have been discussed in the Commons last week—but also that the noble Baroness, who is normally so absolutely in command of her brief, should have brought forward such an absurdly inappropriate example as that of the man going up the aeroplane steps with a bomb. We all know about him, and about what has happened in the past.Lord Tebbit
529: I cannot imagine that anyone would ever suggest that the noble Lord could in any circumstance go over the top. That would be outwith his character, I am sure.529Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I wonder whether the noble Baroness is right in saying that. The definition of "terrorism-related activity" in Clause 1(8) covers somebody who is acting without any intention to encourage terrorism. I do not think that someone whose conduct gives encouragement but who does so unintentionally would have any such knowledge.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: They would be told, "You are being detained because the Home Secretary is at this very moment applying for an order in relation to the control orders pursuant to the Prevention of Terrorism Act". People so detained would know that they had been arrested under those terms. As I said earlier, in all these cases the usual provisions regarding facilities for lawyers and such matters will be made, and obviously there will be an opportunity for them to make representations when the matter comes before the court in due course.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Does that continuous availability of the Home Secretary mean that in practice there will be some administrative means by which permission will be given in his name by somebody else? If not, why is he more readily available than members of the judiciary on a rota?Lord Elton
530: There are two factors. My right honourable friend the Home Secretary remains responsible for those issues throughout the whole period in which he remains in that role. As noble Lords would expect, and a number of noble Lords who have been in this position will know, the Home Secretary will get regular briefings on the state of security matters as they pertain to our country. Therefore, it is likely that he will be in a better position to take immediate action, the security services and the
530Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Does that mean that the order can be signed only by the Secretary of State in person?Lord Elton
: It will work in the ordinary way. My right honourable friend the Home Secretary will make the decision, and that decision will be communicated. If the noble Lord is asking whether that can be done only in writing, all of us know of situations where we are contacted over the telephone and decisions are made that are subsequently reduced into writing. But it will be the decision of my right honourable friend the Home Secretary. The Bill provides that, if the Home Secretary should be indisposed for some reason which would make it physically impossible for him so to do, the Secretary of State can act on his behalf.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I recollect an occasion while I was, I think, the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, when I signed an order under the Prevention of Terrorism Act in relation to Northern Ireland, on the basis of the evidence that was presented to me, because the Secretary of State was not available. I understood that that was the normal rule, and that in this sense "the Home Secretary" means the Secretary of State, and that any Secretary of State may exercise those powers. Is that correct?Lord Tebbit
In extremis,: The position remains the same. Obviously if the Home Secretary is available he or she will make that decision. In extremis,Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: If Amendment No. 92 is agreed to I cannot call Amendments Nos. 94 to 98 inclusive, by reason of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Baroness Fookes)
: In these circumstances, I cannot now call Amendments Nos. 102 to 115, by reason of pre-emption. I think that is correct, but I can see a slight problem.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: I was certainly expecting Amendment No. 112 to be moved. It does not seem to be pre-empted. The government amendment seems, in fact, to be necessary.Lord Goodhart
: My understanding is that if Amendment No. 101 were agreed to, Amendments Nos. 102 to 115 could not be moved, because of pre-emption. I understand the difficulty. because there are government amendments.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: Amendment No. 101 removes the part of the Bill to which the amendments, which are now being discussed, relate. There is nothing there for the amendments to amend.Lord Elton
: Can we deal with the situation in this way? The noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, has moved his amendment which, in effect, deletes provisions allowing the controlled person to apply to the Secretary of State to have a control order modified. That is, I think, the effect of the amendment that the noble Lord moved. It is in an earlier group; we have never actually discussed this particular provision. The noble Lord moved it with such conspicuous speed that—and this is entirely my fault—I failed to pick up that it was not consequential on anything we had done before. It involves a wholly new point.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Inconspicuous speed.Lord Kingsland
: The noble Lord, Lord Kingsland says, in order to accentuate my humiliation, that it was moved with inconspicuous speed. I agree with that completely. I suggest the following procedure: that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, should outline a little why we should remove the power to modify, then we will reply, and that way we will know where we are.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
532: The modification in subsections (1), (2) and (3) provides for a power of the Secretary of State to revoke or modify an order. In view of what has happened earlier—since the Secretary of State will not
532Lord Goodhart
: I am happy to go along with the approach that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, is proposing. However, I am being told by the Clerk at the Table that we cannot do that, as it has been pre-empted. I do not know if we can vote. It would be most inappropriate of us to suggest that we over-ride the Table, but we broadly agree on how we want to proceed on this amendment. If we are not going to be allowed to vote on Amendment No. 112, then I would oppose the amendments of the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart. I would have thought the right course is for us is to have voted on Amendment No. 101 and, having allowed that, then vote on Amendment No. 112 in as well.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Would it be helpful to adjourn for about 15 minutes, while the Front Benches sort this matter out? They are talking to each other, but we at the back cannot hear what is going on. It is in such a muddle, I think it would be helpful if the usual channels would agree to an adjournment for 15 minutes.Lord Desai
: I beg to move that the Committee do now adjourn until 6.25 p.m.Lord Davies of Oldham
533Page 6, line 44, after "(2)(d)" insert "or (3B)(c)"had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 116:
533Page 6, line 44, after "(2)(d)" insert "or (3B)(c)"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: So that I and other noble Lords understand what is going on, Amendment No. 116 is an amendment to Amendment No. 112, which was not moved. What are we amending?Lord Elton
: I think that the noble Lord is correct. We should wait to move Amendment No. 116 until we are able to move Amendment No. 112. I shall not move the amendment. I thank the noble Lord.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I wholly support Amendments Nos. 117 and 119, for the reasons given by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. Since it is a subject to which we will be returning when we come to the schedule, as he said—it is all a question of due process—I do not propose to say anything further at this stage.Lord Thomas of Gresford
535: First, these orders would not differ from ordinary orders in as much as, if there is to be breach, the order would have to state clearly what those acts and/or omissions that the individual would have breached were.535Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her reply.Lord Kingsland
: We strongly believe that the ordinary constructs should apply for the rules. The noble Lord knows that my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor has debated these issues long and hard during the constitutional debate. If I could foreshadow what is coming, and say to the noble Lord that we think that that tried and tested method, namely the Lord Chancellor acting in consultation with the Lord Chief Justice, would probably be the best way. I do not want to pre-empt the delight awaiting the House when the schedule is debated.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I have deliberately sought only to foreshadow that debate telegraphically. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for introducing the amendment. As she rightly says, we have, as a result of an earlier vote, given the Director of Public Prosecutions a responsibility which precedes rather than follows the imposition of the control order. Therefore. we believe that Amendment No. 126 should be placed on the face of the Bill but be slightly redrawn to make it consistent with the wording of our successful amendment.Lord Kingsland
: The role of the DPP is one of making decisions whether to prosecute; he is not responsible for preventative orders. We feel very strongly indeed that it will be important for the DPP to maintain his independence from the Home Secretary. That was our view before the vote. Of course we shall consider the issue but I need to make it clear that, by virtue of the vote today, the Government do not assent to the change in that division of responsibility.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: We are entirely in agreement on the matter of principle which the noble Baroness has just expressed. We do not want to see anything on the face of the Bill that compromises the independence of the DPP. But, with great respect to the noble Baroness, that is not the intention that we on these Benches seek. The DPP looks at the evidence and, independently of the Secretary of State, decides in the first instance to advise the court whether or not a prosecution is possible.Lord Kingsland
540: I agree with everything my noble friend Lord Kingsland said. In moving the amendment, the Minister seemed to have matters the wrong way round. This happens after a control order, whereas the involvement of the prosecuting authority should he before it. The control order should be the last resort.540Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: I should make it absolutely clear that terrorism is not a devolved matter and it never has been. Terrorism remains with Westminster. As a result there will be consultations on how orders will be implemented but they do not need the consent of the devolved administration in Scotland, because these matters have not been devolved but are reserved.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I am sure that there is no dissent—this Government brook no dissent—and what the Minister says about terrorism not being a devolved matter is correct. My point was that prior to devolution if such an action was being taken the Secretary of State for Scotland would have been consulted and involved. I am simply asking the Minister to confirm that the position now is that no Scottish Minister or law officer will be involved in any way; and that those Ministers have been consulted and have given their agreement to the procedure.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
541: Before the noble Baroness replies, having held the position of Lord Advocate I express a degree of surprise that the relevant prosecuting authority defined in the clause in relation to offences likely to be prosecuted in Scotland means the appropriate procurator fiscal.541Lord Cameron of Lochbroom
: Before the noble Baroness replies, I would like to endorse the remarks of my noble friend Lord Forsyth and the noble and learned Lord, Lord Cameron of Lochbroom, the former Lord Advocate. It is surprising that at the same time as bringing in devolution in Scotland the Government have now brought in some form of reverse upward devolution; whereas extensive consultation and involvement did take place in that respect, even though those matters are not now devolved.Lord Lang of Monkton
: I am glad that we have had a chance to go into the Scottish issue. I am grateful for the clarifications brought out by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Cameron. I was interested that in a reply to an earlier question the Minister seemed a little unsure about approaching the procurator fiscal, but she tried to make a rather more robust argument than in this reply.The Duke of Montrose
542: First I will clear up the concern over consultation of the noble Lord,
542Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I do not want to prolong the matter—we may return to it at a later stage. I believe that that is a deeply unsatisfactory response. We are not talking about an administrative matter. We are talking about the Home Secretary being able to contact a procurator fiscal in Scotland—Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: No, the Secretary of State will not contact procurators fiscal. It would be quite improper for him to do so. The chief officer, whose proper duty it is to consider such matters, will be the person responsible for contacting the procurators fiscal. One may fundamentally misunderstand the necessary separation but it has to take place for the democratic situation that we now have to continue, with independent separation of prosecution away from the Secretary of State.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
543: I stand corrected. The Minister is quite right. I was taking a short cut. However, I cannot help pointing out that, in other legislation before the House, the Government seek to take more controls over chief police officers than has previously been the case, both north and south of the Border. Indeed, an amendment giving the First
543Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: Perhaps I may introduce a totally different issue. By this amendment the prosecuting authorities are to continue to look for evidence. That is perhaps how it can be best précised. If they come up with evidence to show that a man has had nothing to do with a situation, and he is not really called Abdul al-Smith, but he is actually an elder of the kirk in Ullapool or somewhere, I hope that evidence will be reported back as soon as possible, the chap released as soon as possible and the mistake admitted. The evidence has to be evidence of either conviction or innocence. Both are equally important matters of evidence.The Earl of Onslow
544: I can tell the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, that the review is a total review. Of course, we shall look at all the evidence that comes before the authorities to consider how best to act. I have already said that if the conditions imposed appeared. on reflection, no longer to be necessary, they
544Baroness Scotland of Asthal
545: Of course, I understand that Amendments Nos. 129 and 139 provide the Secretary of State with the right to appeal against the court if it decides not to modify the control orders. Amendment No. 129 refers to non-derogating control orders and I believe it is based on the assumption that all control orders will be made by the court. Amendment No. 139 refers to derogating control orders. I do not believe I need to repeat the arguments in favour of the Secretary of State making the non-derogating control orders because we have to bear in mind the effect of the matters that have already been dealt with. In the ordinary way, we would be suggesting on behalf of the Government that these amendments should be rejected because they are outwith the construct that we have.545Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I thank the Minister for her explanation. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.The Duke of Montrose
546: I wholly support this amendment, although the whole of Clause 7 will fall shortly. It is important that compensation should be paid, when one of the controls suggested for a control order is a prohibition on a person carrying out his business or trade. It is not compensation for the loss of
546Lord Thomas of Gresford
: This is an important point. We will, however, not accept the amendments. The High Court already has power to award costs in court proceedings, and the rules relating to costs will apply in future to parties to control order proceedings. However, this is a more profound issue than simply costs. I do not think costs are a difficulty.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The language in the proposed amendment is "unreasonably caused", which I think would involve a scrutiny into the basis on which the order was originally sought and made. I wonder whether there are any considerations to which the noble and learned Lord would like to refer that might make it difficult to investigate the unreasonableness of the initial order? We are not talking about whether loss has been suffered. That is demonstrated by my example of a man being ordered not to work. He proves his loss. The issue, I think, is whether that loss was unreasonably caused by the seeking of the order in the first place, which may take us into the heartland of extreme sensitivity. Does he have any observations to make about that?Lord Neill of Bladen
: Of course, it might take us into the heartland of extreme sensitivity. However, the hypothesis on which the noble Lord's amendment is made is that an order has been made, subsequently investigated by the courts and then discharged. I am saying, in effect, "Don't create a special statutory regime. Leave the common law of the Human Rights Act to deal with it". I say that that would be sufficient.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
547: The noble and learned Lord says that we should not make a special statutory excuse under
547The Earl of Onslow
: With respect to the noble Earl, that is not the right approach.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The whole Bill is not the right approach.The Earl of Onslow
: I appreciate that the noble Earl approaches this with that freshness of mind that one has come to expect from him.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The noble and learned Lord says that we should leave this issue to the High Court and its rules. If the system for making High Court rules was the system recognised under the normal procedure, I would feel entirely comfortable. However, the problem is that, in the schedule to the Bill, the normal way in which the High Court rules are made for all cases is displaced.Lord Kingsland
: The rules are displaced for the first occasion only. The rules that apply to the ordinary England and Wales High Court need to be amended to deal with this situation, and they will need to be ready by the end of the week. That is why, in the schedule, the Lord Chancellor can make changes for the first time. Thereafter, the changes can be made in the ordinary way, which is entirely consistent with what the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, urges, and I support him on that. However, I recognise the difficulty of that first set of rules.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
548: The noble and learned Lord has given the Committee an important piece of information. It goes right to the heart of all the issues connected with due process. What is in that first draft will determine whether your Lordships will be prepared to pass this Bill. However, we will not find out what is in that draft until after the Bill leaves this House. That is why the position of the Opposition is that we want a guarantee on the face of the Bill that the rules of court for these matters will not be politically determined.548Lord Kingsland
"the first occasion after the passing of this Act",: Let me deal with that series of very important points. First, I am glad that I have been able to make it clear that the rules we are talking about being made by the Lord Chancellor involve only,
"the first occasion after the passing of this Act",Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I was going to ask whether I could probe these matters further, but I think the noble and learned Lord has given me the answer to what would have been my question in the second half of his last sentence.Lord Kingsland
: The noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, will know that the rules for SIAC address a very similar area, so he will know the broad shape of the rules. But I am as keen as I possibly could be to give the noble Lord the assurance he seeks.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
549: Unlike the operation of SIAC, Article 6 applies to the control order system. Well, the noble and learned Lord says that only Article 6(1) applies, but, with great respect, I believe that he is wrong. I believe that the other sub-paragraphs of Article 6 also apply, for reasons which I would have had a chance to explain to your Lordships' House if we had not been somewhat short of time this afternoon.
549Lord Kingsland
: At the heart of the noble Lord's point is the question, "Can we see a copy of the rules?". We are working as hard as we can on this. I can give no assurances about when they will be produced, but they are in a moderately advanced state of preparation.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"direct that the Act is to have effect as if the order had been quashed".: I hope that Article 6 principles are applied to the rules. It is quite clear to me that the proposed proceedings have the colour of a criminal hearing and that Article 6 will therefore apply in full. It is not just a question of civil obligations when you are depriving people of their liberty, whether to a large or a small degree."direct that the Act is to have effect as if the order had been quashed".Lord Thomas of Gresford
550: I should like to press the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor and go back to the discussion in which, in response to my noble friend Lord Kingsland, he very kindly said that he would endeavour to make the rules of court available. Can he give the same undertaking in respect of the rules which will apply in the Court of Session, which presumably will be a matter for the Lord President? How would that work?550Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My noble friend Lord Forsyth must be right about that. If the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor is prepared to give the concession that any rules this side of the Border are to be considered by the Lord Chief Justice, it must follow as a matter of law that a similar consultation is undertaken with the Lord President of the Court of Session.Lord Fraser of Carmyllie
: I am so glad to see the noble and learned Lord, Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, in this debate. He is of course right—indeed, I can go further on that issue. Rules and procedure of the Court of Session are a devolved matter. I could not make the rules for the Court of Session. It has been agreed, and it is reflected in the Bill, that the Lord President of the Court of Session should make the rules. Unlike the position of the Lord Chief Justice and the Lord Chief Justice in Northern Ireland, the normal ways of making the rules would not permit the rules to be ready in time. The Lord President will make the rules in Scotland because this is a devolved matter, unlike—and I hardly dare stray back into this area—terrorism, which is not a devolved matter.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: What position is the noble and learned Lord taking in relation to consulting the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland?Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: The Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland must also be consulted on the first occasion. That is expressed in the schedule.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: In order to reassure the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, will my noble and learned friend take cognisance of the recommendation of the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee that such rules as are made should be subject to an affirmative procedure? If that is done, we will have sight of the rules before they go into operation.Lord Desai
: The problem that we have is with timing. We need these rules extraordinarily quickly. The first set of rules, which the Lord Chancellor will make in England and the Lord President will make in Scotland, can be made within the time by applying the usual processes in Scotland, but not in England. As I indicated in answer to questions asked by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, the rules are in a moderately advanced state of preparation. I will try to make them available as quickly as I possibly can.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
551: I am a beacon of clarity compared with the Government on this matter. With
551The Earl of Onslow
: The noble Earl puts his point with extreme clarity as ever. Surely, the fact that we have not reserved terrorism but have reserved the rules of the Court of Session is what the devolution settlement is. In dealing with the Bill before us, we must respect the devolution settlement. That is what we are doing.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. I am endeavouring to be helpful. This may be a false point and. as he knows, I am not a lawyer. I understand that this is a devolved measure. Indeed, that was my question. But as I understand it, in respect of all devolved functions by the Scottish Parliament, it must act in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. How can it provide for a set of rules of procedure unless the rules are totally consistent with the European convention? That is what is making my brain hurt.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: I agree with that and so must our rules.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Since the rules are going to be extremely important and will depart from traditional practices in a number of important ways, is it not important that Parliament should have some control over them? I quite understand the importance of getting them very quickly indeed, but would this not be an appropriate occasion on which it would be proper to use the procedure which is used from time to time in which the rules could come into effect immediately but would cease to have effect unless they were approved by both Houses within 40 days?Lord Goodhart
552: May I give that proposal some thought? Our problem with it would be getting them in force in time. If there is a means by which they can be properly looked at, we will certainly consider it, so I will certainly take that suggestion away.552Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Is the Lord Chancellor is referring to the Rehman case, which is the leading case on the subject and was a deportation case? There is an essential difference between such a case and other cases. So far as I know, no court has yet decided that the SIAC procedure would be good under the European convention if applied by a court.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
"However, having regard to the issues to be inquired into, the proceedings are as fair as could reasonably be achieved. It is true that the detainees and their lawyers do not have the opportunity of cross-examining the closed material. However, the use of separate counsel to act on their behalf in relation to the closed evidence provides a substantial degree of protection. In addition, in deciding upon whether there has been compliance with Article 6, it is necessary to look at the proceedings as a whole including the appeal before this court. When this is done and the exception in relation to national security referred to in Article 6 given due weight, I am satisfied there is no contravention"."I would, however, accept the fact that proceedings are civil proceedings within Article 6","As to this, I agree with the commission that the proceedings are not criminal".: I will read from the case of "A" in the Court of Appeal which then went to the House of Lords on the other point but not on this particular point. The following quotation is from paragraph 57 of the judgment of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Woolf. I appreciate that people should look at the whole case rather than reading only a paragraph. I will not give the citation but people can look it up. The noble and learned Lord stated:
"However, having regard to the issues to be inquired into, the proceedings are as fair as could reasonably be achieved. It is true that the detainees and their lawyers do not have the opportunity of cross-examining the closed material. However, the use of separate counsel to act on their behalf in relation to the closed evidence provides a substantial degree of protection. In addition, in deciding upon whether there has been compliance with Article 6, it is necessary to look at the proceedings as a whole including the appeal before this court. When this is done and the exception in relation to national security referred to in Article 6 given due weight, I am satisfied there is no contravention"."I would, however, accept the fact that proceedings are civil proceedings within Article 6","As to this, I agree with the commission that the proceedings are not criminal".Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: That was reversed in the House of Lords.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
553: It was on the point about proportionality and in relation to discrimination, but not in relation to this point. There is another case called "M" in which the Court of Appeal, in a unanimous judgment, stated that it could not leave the case without saying that it accepts that the SIAC
553Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: The noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor must know that that the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords reserved the position in relation to Article 6. The committee found it unnecessary to come to any conclusion on it and reserves the position entirely. The committee did not support what had been said in the Court of Appeal in the way that the Lord Chancellor is implying by his reply—I know that he does not mean to, but that is the implication of what he says.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: I am saying specifically that the Court of Appeal has looked at this matter on two separate occasions and said that it complied with the ECHR. That is the point that the noble Lord has to deal with. I should also make it clear, before the noble Lord deals with it, that the Court of Appeal was aware that the two cases were deportation cases.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: In the light of the Lord Chancellor's reply, will he give us an unqualified undertaking that he will not seek a derogation in relation to Article 6?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: We are not suggesting for one moment that we would seek a derogation from Article 6, and I give that assurance.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: There are two matters on which the noble and learned Lord touched. The first is in relation to the question asked by my noble friend Lord Forsyth. In my submission to the noble and learned Lord. there are at least two distinctions between the Scottish situation and our own. The first is that the rules in Scotland will be decided judicially and here they will derive from the noble and learned Lord—he might say quasi-judicially, but certainly not wholly judicially. Secondly, in Scotland, if those rules do not conform with Article 6, they will be struck down by the courts. In this country, the courts can only go as far as making a declaration of incompatibility.Lord Kingsland
: Again, I would not regard the rules of court as being primary legislation. Therefore, it is not like Part 4 of the Act.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
554: Whichever way the noble and learned Lord looks at it, a court in this country will not strike down a procedure that is held to be contrary to Article 6. The furthest that it can go is to make a declaration of incompatibility.554Lord Kingsland
: Is not my noble friend Lord Kingsland absolutely right about this? As I am sure the noble and learned Lord will recollect, when the Scotland Act 1998 was brought into force, one of the provisions in that statute was that the European Convention on Human Rights should be brought into force with immediate effect. The fact of the matter was that it was brought into effect in Scotland a year before it was brought into effect in the rest of the United Kingdom. In such circumstances, if my noble and learned friend Lord Cullen was dumb enough to introduce rules into the Court of Session which were in some respects not compliant with the European convention, other members of that court would strike them down. That must be the case. It is not a matter, as my noble friend Lord Kingsland says, that it might be compliant, or there could be some judgment of noncompliance; it has to comply under the law.Lord Fraser of Carmyllie
555: I am grateful for the opportunity to clarify the matter. First, I accept
555Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Has not the Committee slightly lost the track of this debate? Surely we should be talking about the merits of the rules that are ultimately put forward. All sorts of rules could be compliant with the European convention without commending themselves to this House or to any other House. I must confess that non-lawyers listening to this debate must wonder where we are getting to. Surely merit is what we are talking about, not the European convention.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I wholly agree with the noble Lord, Lord Phillips. That debate will take place later tonight. I promise that this will be the last time that I rise to my feet in the course of discussing this amendment. Will the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor guarantee that out of all this we will find a set of rules which are the same in England, in Scotland and in Northern Ireland? It would be quite intolerable if the rights given to, or obligations imposed on, potential controllees differed from one part of the United Kingdom to another. Quite apart from whatever these rules are going to be, can I have the noble and learned Lord's assurance that they will all say the same thing?Lord Kingsland
556: Of course I cannot give that guarantee. Any noble Lord will know perfectly well that I cannot give that guarantee. Noble Lords will know that in Scotland there are procedures to deal with contempt which may lead to imprisonment, as is the case in England and Wales, and they have different
556Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: With great respect the noble and learned Lord knows exactly what I mean. It is true that each jurisdiction has its own special way of dealing with certain things procedurally. I was plainly referring to the substance of the rules and the substance of the protections that lie behind them. That is the guarantee that I seek. However, I think that the noble and learned Lord needs time for repose and reconsideration. Therefore, I shall not press him further. I shall simply beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
: I suggest that the Committee stage begins again not before 8.45 p.m. I beg to move that the House do now resume.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
569: Clause 7 still has, for example, the test on what happens with a non-derogating order. Even with the amendments made
569Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: As I understand it, we now have a common procedure for considering both derogating and non-derogating orders—initiated by a judge and involving consideration of the issues thereafter on their merits. That cuts out the core of Clause 7, which is the procedure already initiated by the Secretary of State and that might then be considered by the system of judicial review. That, surely, has all gone.Lord Kingsland
: May I make the following suggestion? The right thing for us to do is to look closely at the effect of the amendments voted by the Committee earlier in the day. We will then bring forward the appropriate amendments on Clause 7.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I think that we may well put down an amendment to leave out Clause 7, on that basis. Perhaps we could leave it in for the moment. I find it very difficult to see, because it is all about flawed decisions by the Secretary of State. They would be gone.Lord Goodhart
: I share the view of the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart. It seems to me as well that it is very difficult to put one's finger on what survives from Clause 7.Lord Kingsland
: Before the noble Lord gives way, will he speak up, please?Lord Clinton-Davis
: Before calling Amendment No. 147, I should inform the Committee that I shall not be able to call Amendment No. 148 if that were to be carried for reason of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Baroness Gould of Potternewton)
"any proceedings in court for the making. renewing, modification, revocation or questioning of a control order".Page 10, line 34, leave out paragraphs (a) to (f) and insert "any proceedings in court for the making, renewing, modification, revocation or questioning of a control order"had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 147:
"any proceedings in court for the making. renewing, modification, revocation or questioning of a control order".Page 10, line 34, leave out paragraphs (a) to (f) and insert "any proceedings in court for the making, renewing, modification, revocation or questioning of a control order"Lord Thomas of Gresford
: I apologise. Amendments Nos. 147 and 147A were pre-empted by the acceptance of Amendment No. 146.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
Page 14, line 10, leave out from second "order" to end of line 11 and insert "made by the Secretary of State"had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 165:
Page 14, line 10, leave out from second "order" to end of line 11 and insert "made by the Secretary of State"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I call Amendment No. 166.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
: I shall move that amendment as it is consequential.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Amendment No. 166 contains provisions which are incompatible with what has now been decided because the Secretary of State no longer has a power to revoke a control order or modify the obligations.Lord Goodhart
: In that case I shall not move the amendment.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
573: I do not think that the amendment is consequential on anything that has
573Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is the court that is now going to make the control order, so it is a matter for the court to consider an application by a controlled person for revocation or modification.Lord Kingsland
: I think we will have to change what we consented to.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Perhaps the noble and learned Lord could explain what he means.Lord Kingsland
: If the parties agree, for example, that the control order would be discharged, would it be necessary to go back to court?Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: It is true that it would not be necessary to go back to court, but this is a much more limited interpretation of the paragraph than was intended by the draftsman of the Bill.Lord Kingsland
: Would it help if the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor were to consider this matter in the light of what has already happened?Lord Clinton-Davis
: It appears to me that it is consequential because the failure by the Secretary of State to consider an application necessarily seems to imply a situation in which it is the duty of the Secretary of State to decide whether such an application should be allowed. I do not believe that it can reasonably be interpreted as referring to a case in which the subject of the order says, "I am applying for revocation of the order; are you going to agree with me or are you going to contest it?". That cannot possibly be a reasonable interpretation of subsection (3), therefore it is clearly consequential.Lord Goodhart
: I agree. Having listened to what the noble Lords, Lord Goodhart, Lord Kingsland and Lord Clinton-Davis, have said, I am persuaded that they are plainly right and I am plainly wrong. Therefore, I agree that it is consequential. I apologise for taking up three minutes of the Committee's time.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
575: We support the concept of a review. It is the drafting to which we on these Benches take exception, because, with an arrogance not unknown on the Benches near to us, the Government have assumed in subsection (3) that neither the Prime Minister nor the Leader of the Opposition will be the leader of the Liberal Democrats. It is our entire purpose to ensure that, in the coming general election which everyone
575Lord Thomas of Gresford
: The noble Lord is being a little optimistic.Lord Clinton-Davis
: The point made by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, is perfectly reasonable. He would be more likely to achieve his object if the leader of the Liberal Democrats had bothered to vote on this Bill in the Commons. As we are going round making little party political jokes, I could not resist that one.The Earl of Onslow
: I wrongly referred to the provision as a "sunset clause". I apologise for that.Lord Clinton-Davis
: As the last reviewer of terrorist legislation, appointed by the then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew, I entirely support the suggestion of a new review to replace mine of 10 years ago.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
576: So far, I have not taken part in any of the debates on this Bill. I am prompted to do so because I believe this is of extreme importance.576Lord Crickhowell
577: I, too, support my noble friend Lord Kingsland in this amendment. I am sorry that the Liberal Democrats took offence at the drafting; I read it assuming that the Prime Minister might be in this House rather than the other place. Given that the other place has gone home for the evening and we are still here, considering legislation which it has not had a chance to see because of the
577Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: I am expecting to find that the Government have allowed this debate to develop as it has so that they may show their open-mindedness and flexibility by conceding the point. In what the prayer book calls the sure and certain hope of that, I shall address your Lordships for only a very short time.Lord Mayhew of Twysden
579578: I apologise for arriving a few minutes after the beginning of this debate but, as some noble Lords will know, I am somewhat hampered in moving rapidly around the Chamber at the moment. I wanted to make a very brief contribution because, although I fully support, as indeed our Benches do, Amendment No. 169, there should be added to it an understanding accepted by all sides of the House.579578Baroness Williams of Crosby
: I am a non-lawyer and, as it were, a private person. I have not spoken so far in this Committee stage but I support as strongly as I can the case for a review at a very early stage so that the country can see how this Bill, when it becomes an Act, works out in practice. Privy counsellors are obviously the right people to undertake this kind of task. I am agnostic about how they should be found or selected but the principle is an essential one.Lord Hylton
subject to the proviso that if the terms of the order were broken, custodial detention would follow".b. the suspect's ability to use financial services, communicate or associate freely (e.g., requiring them to use only certain specified phones or bank or internet accounts, which might be monitored);a. the suspect's freedom of movement (e.g curfews, tagging, daily reporting to a police station);
b. the suspect's ability to use financial services, communicate or associate freely (e.g., requiring them to use only certain specified phones or bank or internet accounts, which might be monitored);a. the suspect's freedom of movement (e.g curfews, tagging, daily reporting to a police station);"It would be less damaging to an individual's civil liberties to impose restrictions on: I have listened very carefully to what noble Lords have said. I, of course, acknowledge the strictures contained in the comments of the noble Baroness, Lady Williams, but I should say to her—I appreciate that she may not have been present during our earlier discussions—that we have already acknowledged that the Newton committee highlighted a number of these issues. I do not agree that that report was treated with disdain but I have accepted that some of the recommendations therein contained certainly merit careful scrutiny. I have also indicated that we are minded to bring forward legislation as soon as reasonably practicable which would take up a number of the Newton committee's suggestions. I have given due credit to the extremely high-quality work which was thereby undertaken.subject to the proviso that if the terms of the order were broken, custodial detention would follow".b. the suspect's ability to use financial services, communicate or associate freely (e.g., requiring them to use only certain specified phones or bank or internet accounts, which might be monitored);a. the suspect's freedom of movement (e.g curfews, tagging, daily reporting to a police station);
b. the suspect's ability to use financial services, communicate or associate freely (e.g., requiring them to use only certain specified phones or bank or internet accounts, which might be monitored);a. the suspect's freedom of movement (e.g curfews, tagging, daily reporting to a police station);"It would be less damaging to an individual's civil liberties to impose restrictions onBaroness Scotland of Asthal
580: I accept that. However, the only reason that this provision was included is because it
580The Earl of Onslow
: I hear what the noble Earl, Lord Onslow, says in that regard and I appreciate that he may have limited imagination. However, I would not possibly suggest that that is the case. Having seen the noble Earl's performances in this House, I would say that the contrary is true.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Is that an undertaking that the Government will definitely provide time for such a debate?Lord Forsyth of Drumtlean
581: If only it were so. Noble Lords will know that time for debate is not within the Government's gift. They will also know that the usual channels, in their inimitable style, have the ability to find time for debates that appear to be supported and merited. If all three parties wished there to be a debate, I cannot conceive that the usual
581Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: The noble Baroness has almost invited me to comment again. All she has indicated so far is that we might have a debate at some unspecified time on reports laid by the Home Secretary. That is wholly inadequate. It has to be tied to a timetable which means that Parliament will have the opportunity to consider the legislation completely afresh. Anything less will not do.Lord Crickhowell
: I hear what the noble Lord, Lord Crickhowell, says on that matter, but the amendments before us this evening do not have that effect. Even if, as is not admitted, there was a need for an annual review, these provisions would not thereby provide it.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
582: I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her reply.582Lord Kingsland
: I think that the amendment has been moved in haste. Although I agree in principle with the noble Lord, I believe that the provision affecting limitation is misconceived as drafted.Lord Clinton-Davis
"The idea of a durable body of properly considered, principled counter-terrorist legislation—which is distinct from mainstream criminal law, addresses this particular threat to society and includes adequate safeguards of the rights of the individual—remains compelling".583: My noble friend, Lord Clinton-Davis, urges patience. I normally consider myself to be a patient woman. I have brought up four sons. That probably explains it."The idea of a durable body of properly considered, principled counter-terrorist legislation—which is distinct from mainstream criminal law, addresses this particular threat to society and includes adequate safeguards of the rights of the individual—remains compelling".583Baroness Hayman
584: My Lords, I understand that the Government are up against tight deadlines, but that is to a large extent their own fault. If we look back a few months, it was perhaps not wholly predictable that the Appellate Committee of your Lordships' House would come to the conclusion that it did on the Belmarsh detainees. but it was certainly foreseeable as a distinct possibility.584Lord Goodhart
: Does the noble Lord consider that we ought to have an opportunity to look at the workings of this legislation? For the reasons that I have adduced, I think that the provision of three or four months is not adequate. I hope that the noble Lord will agree that it is better to have an inforrned debate than a rushed debate.Lord Clinton-Davis
585: I appreciate what the noble Lord, Lord Clinton-Davis, is saying and I fully respect his views. I accept that it is entirely appropriate to have a reconsideration of the principles behind this Bill, but we need what I would describe as a fairly rapid form of pre-legislative scrutiny on the Bill to replace this one. I think that that can be dealt with in a matter of a few months. I do not think that it would be appropriate to wait for, let us say, the three years that might be necessary before one sees how the Bill has panned out in practice. It is too important for us to have a proper reconsideration of the issues behind the Bill. We
585Lord Goodhart
: I want to speak only briefly, in the light of what I said at Second Reading, when I expressed a number of regrets, some of which have been echoed in slightly different ways during this debate. I regretted that there did not appear to have been more active consideration of alternatives to Part 4 in the wake of our report; that for the second time we were—I echoed what the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, had already said—considering in great haste legislation that required careful scrutiny; and that we were not looking at it as part of a balanced package, taking account of what has been promised for later in the year.Lord Newton of Braintree
Hansard,: I shall be very brief. I have listened carefully to the Committee stage of the Bill's passage through your Lordships' House, and with increasing concern. I think back to the words of the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Worcester last Tuesday, which I read in Hansard,The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
586: At the end of Second Reading, being the last speaker, I said that I intended to oppose any sunset clause. The problem is very simple: if we accept this clause, we will go through another hasty piece of legislation. As my noble friend Lord Clinton-Davis said, think of the timetable: if you lose two and a half months between May and November there will not be enough time to legilate properly. It would be preferable if my noble and learned friend could give us an assurance from the Front Bench—as I think has already been given—that, as soon we can after the election, whichever party is in power should initiate legislation on the crime of acts of terrorism, or whatever it is called. We should, as I have said before, have a Joint Committee of both Houses to consider that immediately.586Lord Desai
: Surely the sunset clause will make it a certainty that what the noble Lord, Lord Desai, has just asked for will happen. In other words, it will be looked at—because if nothing is done, the Act will fall. I am not necessarily tied to the date of 30 November. However, I hope I will get an undertaking—from my Front Bench and the Liberal Democrat Front Bench—that if we pass the sunset clause and the Government chuck it back at us from the Commons, with their majority there, then we insist on that clause. Then, if the Government still insist on chucking it out, they will not get their Bill at all. I sincerely hope that such an undertaking can be given by my noble friend Lord Kingsland and by the Liberal Democrat Front Bench. Otherwise, we will, in effect, have been posturing.The Earl of Onslow
: At no time have I ever suggested that we should wait for three years. It is grotesque that the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, should suggest that I have. I agree entirely with the view that we ought to consider this clause in a balanced way. It should not be for longer than one year.Lord Clinton-Davis
587: This is an exceptionally important point that embraces two principles, one of democracy and one concerned with the campaign against terrorism. In my view, a Bill of this nature should always have a
587Lord Brennan
588: I entered the Chamber not intending to speak in this debate, but having listened to the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, perhaps I may say that, curiously enough, he and I, on different sides of this House, existed in the same chambers together for many years. That kind of compromise is what is needed at this moment. I believe that it is possible to achieve a Bill which is necessary for the short term, but it has many faults and we should be given the opportunity to look at it with greater leisure so that those faults can be removed. We will then have in place a law that is accepted by both parties and would meet the recognised need for having some means of dealing with terrorists who cannot be dealt with under our normal forms of judicial procedure.588Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: I too had not intended to intervene on this amendment, but the thoughtful and considered remarks of my noble friends Lord Clinton-Davis and Lord Desai made me think that perhaps I should. I simply want to make the point that I do not believe that anyone in this House, including the Government Front Bench, is happy about the predicament in which we find ourselves. We are introducing measures that go against not just the grain but the foundations of the system of justice that we and our predecessors have worked for over many centuries.Lord Judd
Re A,Re A589: I say straight away that the Government understand the importance of review. That is why the provisions in Clause 11 outlined the review that the Government have in mind—the three-monthly reports, then the independent reviewer and the 12-month report.Re A,Re A589Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I am grateful to the Minister for giving way. I am mesmerised by the charming way in which she is explaining the sequence of events and I am almost persuaded. But does she not recognise that we all read the newspapers and listen to the media? It is perfectly clear that the Government have briefed the media that there will be no further concessions made on the Bill.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
590: I understand why the noble Lord would say that. Of course, no one on the
590Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: If we do not have a certain date, this House will express itself in no uncertain way. The Government have to take into account the overwhelming body of opinion expressed so far. I will not tie myself to 30 November, but there should be a sunset clause. That is the view of many noble Lords who have spoken in the debate. I invite my noble friend to suggest a date, because we are obliged to reconsider the whole legislation.Lord Clinton-Davis
591: I thank my noble friend for that invitation but I regret that I cannot avail myself of it. We will consider the nature of the contributions that have been made. The general tenor
591Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: Does the Minister feel constrained in making any promises about seriously considering the views expressed by many noble Lords, bearing in mind that without listening to any of these arguments last week the Prime Minister on a question from the Leader of the Opposition completely dismissed the idea of a sunset clause?Lord Dholakia
: I am trying to say as clearly as I can that the Government do not believe that a sunset clause is correct. I also said that we have accepted the necessity for a review of the provisions. That is why review provisions are contained in Clause 11. Of course we hear what noble Lords say about the nature of the review that they would wish to have. The import of what has been said is that the review should be an annual review. Those are matters that will be considered. However, I say to your Lordships that we do not believe that a sunset clause on these provisions is appropriate. That is the current view of the Government.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
592: In the light of all the speeches made by noble Lords, I simply cannot believe that the noble Baroness really believes what she is telling the Committee. The Bill is so contrary, so repellent to our constitutional traditions, that even if we had had ample time to consider it, we would still be asking for a sunset clause. As it happens, the Bill has been pushed through with enormous speed.592Lord Kingsland
: Before the noble Lord concludes, perhaps he would answer my question about the attitude of our Front Bench on this matter.The Earl of Onslow
: We shall stand absolutely firm on the issue of the sunset clause if the Government have the temerity to bring it back to us. Meanwhile, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
: Before calling Amendment No. 172, I must advise the Committee that if it is agreed to, I cannot call Amendments Nos. 172A, 173 or 174, due to pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Geddes)
"( ) The relevant rules of court shall be made by the Lord Chief Justice after consulting the Lord Chancellor."Page 16, line 30, leave out sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) and insert—moved Amendment No. 172:
"( ) The relevant rules of court shall be made by the Lord Chief Justice after consulting the Lord Chancellor."Page 16, line 30, leave out sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) and insert—Lord Kingsland
"There is also a case for suggesting that because Parliament is being asked to consider the grant of these powers in some haste, the higher level of scrutiny should be applied when the power conies to be exercised. So the negative procedure provides an inadequate level of scrutiny. We consider that an affirmative procedure should apply to the initial rules by the Lord Chancellor for England and Wales and Northern Ireland, and recommend accordingly".594"In view of the extensive powers given by the bill to restrict an individual subject to a control order, control order proceedings assume a particular importance. It is apparent from paragraph 4
594"An order made under sub-paragraph (5)""the Lord Chancellor is not required, before exercising the powers, to undertake any consultation that would be required in the case of rules made by""The memorandum explains the negative procedure provided for these provisions by suggesting that 'As with other rules of court dealing with detailed procedural matters rather than substantive issues, the negative procedure provides an appropriate level of scrutiny'"."While we do not regard the provision in the Bill as inappropriate delegation, the House may wish to ask the Government for an explanation of the need for this change."593: I hope to detain your Lordships briefly in support of my Amendment No. 172A. I agree with my noble friend Lord Kingsland that any rules of court regulating control order proceedings ought to be made by the Lord Chief
"There is also a case for suggesting that because Parliament is being asked to consider the grant of these powers in some haste, the higher level of scrutiny should be applied when the power conies to be exercised. So the negative procedure provides an inadequate level of scrutiny. We consider that an affirmative procedure should apply to the initial rules by the Lord Chancellor for England and Wales and Northern Ireland, and recommend accordingly".594"In view of the extensive powers given by the bill to restrict an individual subject to a control order, control order proceedings assume a particular importance. It is apparent from paragraph 4
594"An order made under sub-paragraph (5)""the Lord Chancellor is not required, before exercising the powers, to undertake any consultation that would be required in the case of rules made by""The memorandum explains the negative procedure provided for these provisions by suggesting that 'As with other rules of court dealing with detailed procedural matters rather than substantive issues, the negative procedure provides an appropriate level of scrutiny'"."While we do not regard the provision in the Bill as inappropriate delegation, the House may wish to ask the Government for an explanation of the need for this change."593Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: We have a number of amendments in this group. Amendments Nos. 173, 174 and 175 were intended to produce a slightly different solution from that proposed in Amendment No. 172. The Lord Chancellor, while still involved in making the rules, should be required to obtain the consent of the Lord Chief Justice rather than merely to consult him. However, having considered this matter further, we have decided not to move our amendments but instead to support Amendment No. 172, moved by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland.Lord Goodhart
595: I support my noble friend Lord Kingsland in this amendment. I am very much in favour of the rules being made by the Lord Chief Justice after consulting the Lord Chancellor. However, I rise with slight diffidence because I wish to raise another point.595The Duke of Montrose
596: Beginning with the making of the first set of rules in relation to the control order procedures, the provisions made in the Bill involve the Lord Chancellor, after consulting with the Lord Chief Justice, making the rules for both England and Wales and for Northern Ireland. In Scotland, the Lord President makes the rules. That procedure is proposed because, in relation to each of the three jurisdictions, the rules are, in practice, required to be effective as soon as possible. The Part 4 powers lapse at midnight on 13 March, which is Sunday evening.596Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for what he has said. I will withdraw my amendment tonight but I do not undertake not to bring it back tomorrow.Lord Kingsland
597: I did not even seek to assume that the noble Lord was not abusing me in some way. I simply said that Northern Ireland is in the same category as England and Wales. Northern
597Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I misunderstood what the noble and learned Lord said earlier. But despite all that we still believe that these rules must be seen to be judicially made. In those circumstances we find our solution inescapable. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
Page 16, line 34, leave out paragraph (b). had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 172A:
Page 16, line 34, leave out paragraph (b).Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: If Amendment No. 177 is carried, I cannot call Amendments Nos. 178 to 191 for reasons of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Baroness Gould of Potternewton)
: The matter is dealt with even more extensively. The problem with using the phrase "burden of proof"' in the rules was that it might be said to give the rules the power to overturn the provisions about burden. Therefore, I have tabled an amendment that deletes the words "burden of, which I think solves the problem completely.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
599"The Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers may also, in particular … make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative".a fortiori"a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".: I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord.599"The Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers may also, in particular … make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative".a fortiori"a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".Lord Kingsland
600: I find the provisions of paragraph 4 of the schedule the most shocking part of the Bill.600Lord Thomas of Gresford
: The noble Lord has no monopoly on the litigation as far as concerns the Bill.Lord Clinton-Davis
"the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings … to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings".: What we have just heard is right. I want to return briefly to paragraph 4(3)(c) to which the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, recently referred. It states that,
"the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings … to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings".Lord Mayhew of Twysden
602"to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given".601Hansard.: I first say that. I regret very much that long-standing and unbreakable commitments last week meant that I was unable to participate in earlier proceedings, but I have carefully read 602"to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given".601Hansard.Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: I have huge, genuine respect for the noble Baroness's tremendous experience in the field of intelligence, and I think that everybody in this Committee respects her for that experience. But some of us lawyers have worked with intelligence material in court quite frequently—currently, in my case. I would be interested to know whether the noble Baroness has recently been in a court to see how these intelligence matters are handled today, or whether she is looking back to a time, let us say, 10 or 15 years ago, when these matters were dealt with quite differently.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: I was not in court then, and I have not been in court recently, but I do not have to be to know what is happening. And, yes, I am aware of what is happening. Of course things have changed a great deal. None of that invalidates anything that I have just said about the sensitivity of interception techniques, which you would endanger if you started producing them in court and to a defendant.Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
604"We remain concerned about the possible use of torture evidence by UK authorities. Our concerns have not been allayed by the evidence of the Home Secretary. Indeed, we now have concerns about whether the Government has any system in place
604"I would need to be convinced that it had been used which … I am not in this case'"."'we are in a serious difficulty here in that proving a negative in this case is a difficult thing to do.' When pressed on how precisely the Government establish that torture has not been used, the Home Secretary repeated that proving a negative is a difficult thing to do. When asked for an assurance that he will apply an absolute rule that if there is any question that evidence has been obtained by torture it must not be used, the Home Secretary said"—"if he could confirm that none of the material which is relied upon in relation to the current detainees has been obtained from other sources abroad, including the United States, where there have been serious allegations of torture and prisoner abuse. The Home Secretary said that the Government did consider whether it believed that torture had been used in any particular case, and that it did not believe that torture had been used in the cases of the current detainees, but"We asked the Home Secretary"—"The UN Committee Against Torture, in its recent Concluding Observations, expressed its concern that UK law had been interpreted to exclude the use of evidence extracted by torture only where its officials were complicit, and recommended that the Government should give some formal effect to its expressed intention not to rely on or present in any proceeding evidence where there is knowledge or belief that it has been obtained by torture.603: Like the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, I have unlimited respect for my noble friend Lady Ramsay and her professional experience in these spheres. All of that means that we should listen to what she says with great care.604"We remain concerned about the possible use of torture evidence by UK authorities. Our concerns have not been allayed by the evidence of the Home Secretary. Indeed, we now have concerns about whether the Government has any system in place
604"I would need to be convinced that it had been used which … I am not in this case'"."'we are in a serious difficulty here in that proving a negative in this case is a difficult thing to do.' When pressed on how precisely the Government establish that torture has not been used, the Home Secretary repeated that proving a negative is a difficult thing to do. When asked for an assurance that he will apply an absolute rule that if there is any question that evidence has been obtained by torture it must not be used, the Home Secretary said"—"if he could confirm that none of the material which is relied upon in relation to the current detainees has been obtained from other sources abroad, including the United States, where there have been serious allegations of torture and prisoner abuse. The Home Secretary said that the Government did consider whether it believed that torture had been used in any particular case, and that it did not believe that torture had been used in the cases of the current detainees, but"We asked the Home Secretary"—"The UN Committee Against Torture, in its recent Concluding Observations, expressed its concern that UK law had been interpreted to exclude the use of evidence extracted by torture only where its officials were complicit, and recommended that the Government should give some formal effect to its expressed intention not to rely on or present in any proceeding evidence where there is knowledge or belief that it has been obtained by torture.603Lord Judd
: I warmly endorse and support everything that the noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay, has said. I will, however, add two points. One is that we are also obliged to think about the rights of the agent who takes the risk, by working—probably for many years—in a highly dangerous environment, knowing that his life is at stake. That would be so in the kind of case we are discussing. Frankly, if such agents see this sort of thing happening in courts, and defence counsel—quite properly, given the interests of their client—revealing what should not be revealed, then we shall not have any agents. That would be a pretty serious situation.Baroness Park of Monmouth
605: I would surmise that the problem outlined by the noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay, and my noble friend Lady Park is not new. I assume that throughout the Irish Troubles we had agents deep within the IRA. We knew that we did not have to compromise them and we knew how not to compromise them.605The Earl of Onslow
: I cannot refrain from saying, with the greatest respect to my noble friend, that he is talking absolute nonsense. This is a totally different situation, one that involves far more sophisticated people and much greater danger. Thank God we did have people within the IRA, but we would not have had them if they had been exposed in this way. That will happen again. We are not talking about the Zimmermann telegram, although that was an important issue; we are talking about human beings—and human beings we will be putting at risk. I submit that that is not the same as putting systems at risk, although they are very important.Baroness Park of Monmouth
"the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."make provision enabling the relevant court to give a relevant party to control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings a summary of evidence taken in his absence"."make provision about the functions in control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings of persons appointed under paragraph 7"."make provision enabling the relevant court to conduct proceedings in the absence of any person, including the relevant party to the proceedings and his legal representative (if he has one)"."make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".607"make provision about legal representation in such proceedings"."enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing"."in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings"."make provision about the mode and burden of proof"."It is possible by using special advocates to ensure that those detained can achieve justice and it is wrong, therefore, to undervalue the SIAC appeals process"."can play an important role in protecting an appellant's interests before SIAC. He can seek further information. He can ensure that evidence before SIAC is tested on behalf of the appellant. He can object to evidence and other information being unnecessarily kept from the appellant"."As this appeal illustrates, a special advocate"—606: These are important provisions about the rules of procedure and it is incumbent on the Committee to consider the material put before us by those who have engaged in the debate. I am extraordinarily impressed by what has been said by both my noble friend Lady Ramsay and the noble Baroness, Lady Park. Indeed, their words are wholly reflected by those with any experience of what has gone on within SIAC. I refer to three authorities in that respect. First, the committee chaired by the noble Lord, Lord Newton, made it absolutely clear that certain material could not be disclosed either to the suspect who was the subject of the orders or to his lawyers. Secondly, the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew, made exactly the same points as the noble Baroness, Lady Park, in his report. He referred specifically to the fact that free disclosure would put human intelligence sources at risk. Thirdly, the judges in SIAC supported the non-disclosure of material to the suspect for precisely the reasons that the noble Baronesses, Lady Ramsay and Lady Park, put to this Committee this evening."the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court, or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."make provision enabling the relevant court to give a relevant party to control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings a summary of evidence taken in his absence"."make provision about the functions in control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings of persons appointed under paragraph 7"."make provision enabling the relevant court to conduct proceedings in the absence of any person, including the relevant party to the proceedings and his legal representative (if he has one)"."make provision enabling control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons for decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a relevant party to the proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one)".607"make provision about legal representation in such proceedings"."enable or require such proceedings to be determined without a hearing"."in control order proceedings and about evidence in such proceedings"."make provision about the mode and burden of proof"."It is possible by using special advocates to ensure that those detained can achieve justice and it is wrong, therefore, to undervalue the SIAC appeals process"."can play an important role in protecting an appellant's interests before SIAC. He can seek further information. He can ensure that evidence before SIAC is tested on behalf of the appellant. He can object to evidence and other information being unnecessarily kept from the appellant"."As this appeal illustrates, a special advocate"—606Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am grateful for that description of practice, which is very welcome. Why can it not be included specifically in the Bill, in the rule?Lord Mayhew of Twysden
608: That is the way in which it works in practice. I do not think that the rule in
608Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Perhaps the noble and learned Lord can help me on that topic. When the SIAC sees material that is not disclosed either to the applicant or to his representative, is it entitled to act upon it? Usually in a criminal trial the judge will look at material to decide whether it is relevant or whether it should be disclosed, but he does not act on it because there is a jury, and it is the jury who are the finders of fact. What happens with material disclosed to SIAC? Is it entitled to act upon that material?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: Of course it is entitled to act on it. The decision is being made by SIAC and it must make its decision on the basis of all the material that is put before it. If there is material that is shown to the court and looked at by the special advocate but not seen by the applicant or his legal representative, SIAC is obliged to consider all of the material before it in reaching a decision. There is no exclusion of the material from its decision-making process. It might not attach much weight to it for evidential reasons or it might attach significant weight to it; it is for SIAC to decide.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am grateful for that clarification. Does it then follow that SIAC makes a decision and forms its reasons based upon material that is never shown to the applicant, but then does not tell him those reasons? So his liberty can be diminished without him ever knowing what SIAC has seen, what the allegations are and what the reasons are for his detention or whatever it may be. Is that how it works?Lord Thomas of Gresford
609: Again, I am disappointed that the noble Lord has not read the Newton report and the Carlile report, which went through all of this in great detail. The court seeks to give as much material as it possibly can to the suspect and his legal representatives. Some of the material, if disclosed to the suspect or his legal representative, could endanger method or source of information. So a balance has had to be struck, an
609Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I wish to readdress the question of my noble friend Lord Thomas. Does the noble and learned Lord, the Lord Chancellor, accept or agree that a procedure used for immigration tribunals would stand the test were it to come forward in this context of restrictions on liberty and so forth?Baroness Falkner of Margravine
"The Secretary of State could not rely on a statement which his agents had procured by torture, or with his agent's connivance at torture. He was not, however, precluded from relying, for the purposes of ss 21 and 15 ATCSA 2001, on evidence coming into his hands which had or might have been obtained through torture by agencies of other states over which he had no power or direction. If he had neither procured the torture nor connived at it, he had not offended the relevant constitutional principles. Provided that the Secretary of State was acting in good faith, a recognition of his responsibility for national security was required when assessing his approach to the material available to him. That conclusion was not altered by art 15 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture".AA and OthersA and Others610: Yes, I believe that it would. I believe that it is the fairest procedure that can be devised that ensures that the suspect sees as much as possible and we protect our sources. The consequence for the people in respect of whom the procedure has been held to be fair is that they have been put in prison and have been in prison for a considerable time. Control orders will not go that far. I have little hesitation in saying that I believe this to be the fairest procedure. The Lord Chief Justice described it as a procedure whereby justice could be done. That is the essential test of whether it is fair."The Secretary of State could not rely on a statement which his agents had procured by torture, or with his agent's connivance at torture. He was not, however, precluded from relying, for the purposes of ss 21 and 15 ATCSA 2001, on evidence coming into his hands which had or might have been obtained through torture by agencies of other states over which he had no power or direction. If he had neither procured the torture nor connived at it, he had not offended the relevant constitutional principles. Provided that the Secretary of State was acting in good faith, a recognition of his responsibility for national security was required when assessing his approach to the material available to him. That conclusion was not altered by art 15 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture".AA and OthersA and Others610Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Does my noble and learned friend agree that it is not just a matter of human rights and related issues, but that it is fundamentally central to our considerations that information gained by torture is notoriously unreliable? If the Home Secretary does not know for certain how the information has been acquired, how can he evaluate that information and its reliability? Does that not serve to underline still further that, right at the centre of the decisions that may be made by the Home Secretary, there is the possibility that he is acting on information about whose quality he cannot be certain.Lord Judd
: I repeat our utter repudiation of torture. Governments will obtain material from other governments, but they may not know the precise details of how it was obtained and yet they may regard it as reliable; for example, the source has given reliable material in other circumstances. So reliability can be judged by testing what has been said elsewhere.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
611: Before we leave the topic altogether, the noble and learned Lord has quoted from the judgment of the Court of Appeal. Was it not the argument of the Government before the Court of Appeal that evidence obtained by torture, so long as it
611Lord Thomas of Gresford
: The Government's argument was that no material relied on by the Home Secretary had been obtained by torture. That was the first submission. The second submission was that, if, contrary to that first submission, it was obtained by torture and it was reliable, in certain circumstances it would be necessary for the Home Secretary to rely on it if he were to prevent an atrocity. Both arguments were accepted by the court, provided that the Secretary of State was acting in good faith. A recognition of his responsibility for national security was required when assessing his approach to the material available to him. The House of Lords will have to decide whether that is right or wrong.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I appreciate that the noble and learned Lord's words are not addressed to me but to my noble friend Lord Thomas. I believe he goes to the heart of the matter. If the Home Secretary found that the evidence was reliable, perhaps the noble and learned Lord can tell the Committee how the Home Secretary would expect to know that the evidence is reliable when it might have been obtained by torture and he does not have any information on the veracity of the material. Will there be some definitional test whereby the Home Secretary will certify that the information on which he bases his decision is not obtained by torture? Ergo, essentially we do not know. Therefore, how can we take serious decisions, based on a serious perception of a threat when we simply do not know. We know empirically that evidence obtained by torture tends on the whole to be unreliable.Baroness Falkner of Margravine
612: I would much prefer that the noble Baroness, Lady Park, or my noble friend Lady Ramsay, answer that question. My instinctive reaction is to say, "How is the Home Secretary supposed to know?". He has to make a judgment and he has to take advice. In relation to intelligence, it may be that one of the most indicative signs that something is to be relied upon is whether the source had produced material in the past that had turned out to be reliable. It might depend on what the source was, whether human intelligence or technological intelligence. One would put everything together and come to a judgment in relation to where, overall, the intelligence points.
612Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court"—: I thank the noble and learned Lord for his response, and indeed all noble and noble and learned Lords who have spoken in this crucial debate."or to any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it in those proceedings"."the Secretary of State is not required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose anything to the relevant court"—Lord Kingsland
613: The noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, exactly follows what I was saying. I am happy to go away and, if necessary, amend paragraph 4(3)(c) to make it clear that nothing must prevent—indeed, there must be rules that require—the disclosure of exculpatory material to the court and to the special advocate.
613Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I am much obliged to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for that helpful response. More generally, I share what I suspect was behind the remarks of the noble Baroness, Lady Falkner, that the Government will probably be wrong to assume that, as far as the European Convention on Human Rights is concerned, what is good for SIAC deportation proceedings is also good for proceedings against British citizens who cannot be deported.Lord Kingsland
Page 17, line 12, leave out "and burden"moved Amendment No. 178:
Page 17, line 12, leave out "and burden"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I must advise the Committee that if Amendment No. 182 is agreed to, I cannot call Amendment No. 183 due to pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
614"( ) make provision for supplying to a relevant party to control order proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one) a summary of the nature of the allegations against him and (where the court so orders) of the evidence upon which such allegations are based."Page 17, line 32, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 184:
614"( ) make provision for supplying to a relevant party to control order proceedings or his legal representative (if he has one) a summary of the nature of the allegations against him and (where the court so orders) of the evidence upon which such allegations are based."Page 17, line 32, at end insert—Lord Thomas of Gresford
: We have debated every one of these amendments at least once and, in many particularly privileged cases, more than once. For all the reasons I have already given, I oppose the amendment.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: I shall return to these matters tomorrow. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Thomas of Gresford
"( ) that all the reasons of the Secretary of State for decisions to which the proceedings relate and the evidence he adduces to support the decisions are given to or served on the relevant party at the same time or before they are given to the court: and"Page 17, line 34, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert—had given notice of his intention to move amendment No. 185.
"( ) that all the reasons of the Secretary of State for decisions to which the proceedings relate and the evidence he adduces to support the decisions are given to or served on the relevant party at the same time or before they are given to the court: and"Page 17, line 34, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert—Lord Kingsland
"( ) Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers must include provision that proceedings on an appeal under section 7 must begin no later than the end of such period after the bringing of the appeal as is specified in the rules.".Page 17, line 45, at end insert—had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 190:
"( ) Rules of court made in exercise of the relevant powers must include provision that proceedings on an appeal under section 7 must begin no later than the end of such period after the bringing of the appeal as is specified in the rules.".Page 17, line 45, at end insert—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: Before calling Amendment No. 192, I must remind the Committee that if it is agreed to I cannot call Amendments Nos. 193 to 196 inclusive due to pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
615Page 18, line 27, after "Chancellor" insert "or in Scotland, the Lord President"had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 194:
615Page 18, line 27, after "Chancellor" insert "or in Scotland, the Lord President"The Duke of Montrose
562: My Lords, I feel at some disadvantage in the debate compared with the noble Lord, Lord Higgins, who has received his pension up-rating, very properly looked at it and seen what he has seen. I do not yet receive a pension, but I am sympathetic to the point. It irritates me greatly when I get my car or house insurance renewal and it does not give the previous year's figure and one has to look in one's records. So, in principle, that sounds like a good idea and a good request.562Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
563: My Lords, I am happy quickly to clarify that. Yes, it does mean the end of the contribution principle. However, people will all receive the same regardless of whether they have contributed.563Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Baroness that the principle of capping benefits is right, in a situation where money is clearly tight. However, there was no need to make a cheap political point, at the Conservatives' expense, as to what she might think the rates of inflation would be. The noble Baroness and I will both remember well that under a Labour government, in the 1970s, inflation actually reached nearly 30 per cent. It would be better not to be political with such a long-term thing.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, that is not the position. We have made it quite clear that we would finance the citizen's pension by making savings in government expenditure elsewhere. We would not find the money from the state second pension.Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay
: My Lords, a lot of concern is expressed by people affected by something that the noble Baroness has not mentioned: the fact that the amount is to be capped, even for those in the period immediately up to retirement.Lord Higgins
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Lord. On his proposal for a citizen's pension, would that effectively mean the end of the contribution principle? If so, does he think that after the change those who have contributed should get more than those who have not?Lord Higgins
: My Lords, can the noble Baroness remind us what the qualification is for the age addition?Lord Higgins
: My Lords, how many are covered by it? This order actually increases the amount.Lord Higgins
561: We appreciate the four sentences.561Lord Higgins
560"The UK pension system appeared in the past to work well because one of the least generous state pension systems in the developed world was complemented by the most developed system of voluntary private funded pensions".Official Report,"As a way of capping budget, the Government have tried to target benefit on those financially most in need. And because the Minister and his department did not get their heads around the problem, the Government targeted that budget in the simpleminded way of extending means testing at the expense of insurance-based budget benefits".—[Official Report,559: My Lords, the pattern of debates in this House in the past few days has become fairly consistent. The noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, and the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor discuss crucial matters of terrorism, life and death. imprisonment without trial, the Human Rights Act and so on but every so often there is a break—at lunchtime or dinnertime—when the Minister, the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, and I come into our own. Indeed, on occasion it has been rather useful because they have managed to work out what on earth is happening about the other Bill. I find the way in which the Government are proceeding in that matter, and the shambles that the procedure has become from time to time, to be of the gravest concern.560"The UK pension system appeared in the past to work well because one of the least generous state pension systems in the developed world was complemented by the most developed system of voluntary private funded pensions".Official Report,"As a way of capping budget, the Government have tried to target benefit on those financially most in need. And because the Minister and his department did not get their heads around the problem, the Government targeted that budget in the simpleminded way of extending means testing at the expense of insurance-based budget benefits".—[Official Report,559Lord Higgins
[The Sitting was suspended. from 8.33 to 8.45 p.m.]: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until 8.45 p.m.[The Sitting was suspended. from 8.33 to 8.45 p.m.]Baroness Andrews
de minimus,: Yes, my Lords, but the noble Lord asked how many people this would apply to. Obviously it is a matter for companies. I shall see whether I can find him that information.de minimus,Baroness Hollis of Heigham
565: My Lords, it is over 80. It is the measly sum of 25p a week. In my view, it should have been rolled in with other payments long ago.565Baroness Hollis of Heigham
564: My Lords, that was an unexpectedly generous tribute from the noble Lord, Lord Oakeshott, which was very nice indeed.564Baroness Hollis of Heigham
566: My Lords, money is tight. It seems not unreasonable that FAS is capped at £12,500, which represents a 50 per cent pension before things such as entitlement to S2P, SERPS or the basic state pension are included. That represents a 50 per cent replacement income on average earnings. If money is tight, as it is, it does not seem necessarily appropriate, as the Secretary of State put it, that we should increase the money for those much better off—first, for those who are possibly in a position to make savings for themselves, and, secondly, for the particularly well off, who frankly may have contributed to the failure of their scheme. If money is tight, as it clearly is under FAS, it is reasonable, first, not to have indexation, because if you index you reduce the amount of money available now, and secondly, to cap it at what would be effectively a replacement income of around 50 per cent of average earnings and 80 per cent of what your pension would have been at that point.566Baroness Hollis of Heigham
567: My Lords, I accept the point and I have not tried to challenge in any way the contention that if you fail to index, depending on the rate of inflation, the value over time will diminish in real terms. While I do not want to make a cheap point about open purses, the point is that if you were to index within the same financial envelope at around 2.5 per cent instead of going for 80 per cent, you would almost certainly have to opt for a substantially lower figure. I cannot do the sums in my head, but it could be as low as 60 per cent. I do not know, but it would be of that order.
567Baroness Hollis of Heigham
568: My Lords, I shall not develop the argument any further, but while I am sure that the noble Lord is no party to it, I think that this is Alice in Wonderland finance. Certainly, outside of this House, the usual suggestion made by organisations considering the financing of the £109 basic citizen's pension is to roll S2P into it. The result of that would be the effective end of contracting out for DB schemes, which in turn would destabilise them. So there are real problems about how to pay for such a pension without ending S2P, offsetting that with the end of contracting out for DB schemes and thus further destabilising final salary pensions.568Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].[8th Report from the Joint Committee]. rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 1 February be approved (Baroness Hollis of Heigham.)[8th Report from the Joint Committee].[8th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Hollis of Heigham
: I gave the noble Lord four sentences on this matter. But I agree that was a modest amount.Baroness Hollis of Heigham
(Baroness Hollis. of Heigham.)8th Report from the Joint Committee558557[8th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 1 February be approved (Baroness Hollis. of Heigham.)8th Report from the Joint Committee558557[8th Report from the Joint Committee].The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Work and Pensions (Baroness Hollis of Heigham)
(Baroness Amos.)(Amendments on Third Reading)481(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day): My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)(Amendments on Third Reading)481(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the third Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the fourth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the fifth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the sixth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)Baroness Amos
: Oh!Noble Lords
"if it … considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on the individual".: I wonder if the noble Lord, Lord Clinton-Davis, would be reassured if I draw his attention to paragraph (b) of Clause 2(1), which is plain, and goes to the crux of the matter. It says that a court may make a control order against an individual,
"if it … considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the public from a risk from a risk of terrorism, to make a control order imposing obligations on the individual".Lord Renton
: Content.Noble Lords
: Oh.Noble Lords
: My Lords, will the Minister confirm that every government department has had an in-depth training system for freedom of information? Will she ensure that that training continues, because the Act's good start is based on the release of information? Will she continue to emphasise to the people implementing the Act that they should err on the side of openness?Lord Clark of Windermere
658: My Lords, I hesitate to suggest that one of the reasons for the need for a sunset clause has not yet been mentioned. The fight against terrorism is not just a fight against the bombers: it is also a fight for the hearts and minds of the community from which they come.658Viscount Brookeborough
: My Lords, I should declare an interest as a former chair of Liberty and, indeed, as a present member of Liberty. By the way, I should warn the office of Liberty to expect a large number of applications from members of the Conservative Party to join—and they will be welcome.Lord Dubs
: My Lords, the banking sector plays a key role in the United Kingdom's economy and is important to economic growth and to our prosperity. The Government's objective is to ensure that the financial services market works well for consumers. Several measures have been introduced over the past few years that improve competition in the banking industry. These have given consumers greater opportunities to take advantage of the wide choice of financial products available to them.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
: My Lords, the measure of the difference between lending interest rates and borrowing interest rates is well known; it is called the spread. It has been decreasing in recent years. I can, with pleasure, set out the figures in a letter to the noble Lord, Lord Dykes. It has been decreasing for all banks. The problem is that the spread is not the same for all banks and my bank is particularly bad at it. But that is my problem; perhaps I should change banks.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the Government do not comment on the financial results of individual companies.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, some time ago—some would say too long ago—Don Cruickshank made recommendations to the Government about the banks' treatment of small businesses. The Government referred his report to the Competition Commission, which reported in June 2002. All, I think, of the recommendations of the Competition Commission have been implemented. In particular, I draw attention to the agreement made by the Office of Fair Trading with the banks that they should offer a current account at base minus 2.5 per cent, or an account free of transmission charges, or a choice between the two. There are also other options.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the Chancellor announced in the Pre-Budget Report 2003 that he would give an enhanced role to the Office of Fair Trading to tackle this problem. I acknowledge that it is a problem. The Office of Fair Trading has set up a payment system task force that will report very shortly. I hope that the noble Baroness, Lady O'Cathain, will be pleased with the outcome.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, of course, banks pay taxes on their activities in this country, but I must point out that our major banks earn a great deal of their income overseas. For example, less than 30 per cent of HBOS's profits arise in Europe—I should not have said that word to the noble Lord, Lord Pearson. I am sorry; I hope that he will pardon the expression.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I addressed that in the first part of my original Answer. Whatever, aesthetically, we think about the banks, they are an essential part of any economy. They contribute to our economic growth and prosperity.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I wonder whether the Minister is aware—Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I think that it is our turn.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
perestroikaglasnost: My Lords, I am grateful. I hesitate to puncture any optimism or joyfulness, but is the Minister aware that when I asked the previous Lord Chancellor, the noble and learned Lord, Lord Irvine of Lairg, and the former Home Secretary, Jack Straw, whether I could see the concluded studies for the Human Rights Act—I explained that I did not want to see anything to do with ministerial responsibility—I was given two answers? One was from the noble and learned Lord, Lord Irvine of Lairg, who has a developed sense of humour, who suggested that I waited until I was 94 under the 30-year rule. He said he was sure that my health would ensure that I would see the document. Secondly, when I finally saw, after the ombudsman intervened, 32 pieces of paper, they were crudely excised and one of the excisions was where the noble Lord, Lord Warner, had given advice to the Labour Party. I was told that I could not be informed that it was the noble Lord, Lord Warner, as he was not a government official. Is there now a spirit of perestroikaglasnostLord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords—Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I see that in the next amendment we shall consider, Amendment No. 6, it is proposed that there should be a requirement to allow someone to be photographed. Can the Minister indicate why that is necessary? I believe it to be desirable, but why is it necessary if there is this inclusive definition, which we are seeking to delete? Surely it would be better to do as we suggest in this amendment.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, before the noble and learned Lord sits down, I gave notice to his office only this morning that I would ask whether there are draft rules that could be seen by the House. I was told that there were not. However, can the noble and learned Lord say whether there are draft rules in existence on which he is in the process of consulting the Lord Chief Justice? I think the noble and learned Lord just said that he was in the process of doing so. Is there some kind of draft which is being seen by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Woolf, at the moment?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
682: My Lords, I wish to make two points, one on torture and the other on due process. I was party to the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, to which the noble Lord, Lord Judd, has just referred. Of course, that gives effect to the obligations already imposed on Parliament, the Government and the judiciary in international law by the torture convention. The only reason the Court of Appeal decided the torture convention could be put into the waste paper basket, effectively, was that it has not been incorporated into domestic law.682Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords—Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. He referred to the independent special advocates. He is certainly right in saying that they are independent and, if I may say so, they are outstandingly able. I commend the Government on the way in which they have been appointed, but this body of men and women have special expertise in whether the SIAC procedures have worked fairly. Is he consulting, and has he consulted, the body of special advocates, on the basis of their practical experience, on whether improvements can be made to the SIAC procedures? If so, what representations have they made?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, this is an important amendment because its purpose is to ensure that the subject in these novel proceedings should have a fair trial. It would, of course, be the duty of the court to ensure that the suspect had a fair trial in any event. That has always been the way in which we have conducted our judicial proceedings. It would also be obliged to apply Article 6 of the Human Rights Act, quite apart from this amendment. Perhaps the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, could confirm whether these are civil proceedings, as they are supposed to be, or criminal proceedings, as they seem more nearly to be, when he comes to reply.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, I disagree with the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson; I find the proposed amendment extremely attractive. if these were ordinary proceedings, of course the noble and learned Lord would be quite right, but they are not ordinary civil proceedings.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords—Lord Lloyd of Berwick
633: My Lords, I have one simple question to ask. If it is in order I shall ask it, but not otherwise. My question is on the new Clause 2, which I entirely support. I supported it yesterday and still support it. At what stage will it be open to the suspect—I shall call him the suspect—to challenge the
633Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, before we move on to the next items of business—two sets of regulations and an order—it may be helpful if I spell out what I hope will happen in the next couple of hours. The Bill will now be reprinted as amended, which will take, we guess, about an hour. As soon as it has been reprinted and is available in the Printed Paper Office, a note to that effect will be placed on the annunciator so that noble Lords will know that the Bill is available. They will then be able to table amendments for Third Reading, although should they be minded not to table any amendments for consideration at Third Reading I do not think that it would disappoint too many people. Half an hour will be allowed for amendments to be tabled and we expect that the House will be reconvened about 10 minutes after that. Of course, we do not know how long the regulations will take to debate, but we estimate that there will be about 1 hour and 40 minutes between the conclusion of Report stage and the start of the Third Reading. I am not offering the House a time now, because we can move seamlessly to the regulations, but this is the best estimate at the moment.Lord Grocott
Page 21, leave out lines 35 to 38moved Amendment No. 36:
Page 21, leave out lines 35 to 38Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I should make it clear that I agree with what the noble Lord, Lord Dahrendorf, said. There is no question of negotiations in these matters. The Delegated Powers Committee says what the position is and individual government departments then respond, or not, to this House, as they see fit. I accept the noble Lord's view on that.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, as I made clear, I am second to none in my admiration of the noble and learned Lord the Lord President.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
692: My Lords, I do not know whether they are completely happy. Those who are staying on have made specific points in writing to the Government and we have sought to address them. Having addressed those points, we want their views on our proposals.692Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, perhaps I can consider whether that needs to be done between now and Third Reading, which will take place in a few hours' time. It seems to me to be a perfectly sensible suggestion. It would make it clear that the Secretary of State has to disclose the material to the court and to the special advocate. The difficulty arises if the court then says, "You have to show it to the suspect", and then, no doubt, the Secretary of State will decide what to do about it.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"on an application ex parte by the Secretary of State for public interest immunity"?: My Lords, of course, everyone agrees that a summary should be provided. Am I right in saying that paragraph 4(d) of the amendment is the only circumstance in which the noble Lord believes that material can be kept from the suspect in the legal process; namely,
"on an application ex parte by the Secretary of State for public interest immunity"?Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, two points follow from that. First, the noble Lord does not want the special advocate procedure at all. Secondly, if the judge says that it has to be disclosed, then obviously the Secretary of State has to make his choice. However, if it cannot be disclosed on national security grounds, then it cannot be used.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I would seriously ask the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, and the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, to think for a moment. The reason why paragraph 4 is in that form is to make it clear that whoever makes the rules has the power to include in them the special advocate procedure. It places the matter beyond doubt. because it would be unusual for rules of the High Court to permit that unusual procedure unless there was clear statutory authority.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Page 20, line 42, leave out from "required" to "in" in line 45 and insert "to comply with any provision of rules of court, or order of the relevant court, for the disclosure to a person other than the court or a person appointed under paragraph 7 of any matter in respect of which the Secretary of State has made such an application but on which he does not then rely"had given notice of his intention to move Amendment No. 30:
Page 20, line 42, leave out from "required" to "in" in line 45 and insert "to comply with any provision of rules of court, or order of the relevant court, for the disclosure to a person other than the court or a person appointed under paragraph 7 of any matter in respect of which the Secretary of State has made such an application but on which he does not then rely"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
"Application for anonymity for controlled person 4A"Page 21, line 4, at beginning insert—moved Amendment No. 32:
"Application for anonymity for controlled person 4A"Page 21, line 4, at beginning insert—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I suggest that the noble Lord, Lord Lester of Herne Hill, who I unfairly cut off, comes first.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
671: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend Lady Hayman for putting forward the suggestion, which, as she rightly says, was proposed by the noble Lord, Lord Carlile of Berriew. It is put forward very much in the spirit of trying to find a sensible solution.
671The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, we have talked about this before. I would strongly recommend that we do not vote on it at this stage. There are three reasons why the Lord Chancellor should make the rules on this particular occasion. First, the Bill is not talking about the Lord Chancellor making the rules in the long term. Only on the first occasion is he proposing that these rules be made.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, yes, there is. We are having to consult together on it. It is obvious to everybody in the House what the timing is, and obvious that England and Wales will be the focus of the initial orders. Everybody knows that the Part 4 powers come to an end on a particular date—which is next Sunday. The truth is that there are drafts which have been sent to the Lord Chief Justice. I do not want, at this stage, to show what the drafts are without there first being some consultation with the Lord Chief Justice, which I think is the appropriate way of dealing with it.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
674: My Lords, it is not a matter for this Parliament to determine what the provisions of the rules of the Court of Session can be in Scotland. Thanks to devolution—and this is a good thing—we do not have power in practice to intervene in a devolved area; that is, we do have power but we should not exercise it. I am quite satisfied, on the basis of what I have been told, that the rules of court that will be made in Scotland will be entirely satisfactory.674Lord Falconer of Thoroton
675: My Lords, the rules are made by different bodies in Scotland and England. The significance of what is happening in England and Wales at present is that the urgency is greater there than in Scotland, because it would be anticipated that orders would need to be made first in England and Wales. I have absolutely no desire to make the rules in Scotland—indeed, I have agreed with the noble and learned Lord, Lord Cullen of Whitekirk, that he, as the Lord President, will do so there. They might well differ in their precise format from those in England and Wales. However, the basis on which we operate is that
675Lord Falconer of Thoroton
691: My Lords, I agree entirely with what the noble Lord has said. Special advocates have made detailed representations to the Attorney-General—not to me, because the Attorney-General appoints them. However, I have seen the detailed representations and the special advocates have gone through a number of areas where they believe more support is needed. I shall not go through every single one that they have given because I went through them in detail in the Constitutional Affairs Select Committee. On behalf of the Government, we did not accept every single point that they made, but we accepted, in practice, the substance of the points.691Lord Falconer of Thoroton
690: My Lords, there are two stages that one needs to address. The noble Lord, Lord Maclennan, is right that if there is material which you cannot tell the suspect about because it endangers national security, there is plainly the possibility that you have not obtained from the suspect instructions that would deal with it. On the other hand, I do not think that people who have looked at it dispute the proposition that it would be dangerous to give that to the suspect, for national security reasons. I take one utterly obvious example: suppose there is an informant who is right at the heart of a terrorist cell, and that if you reveal a particular sequence of events, you almost inevitably reveal the name of the informant. That
690Lord Falconer of Thoroton
We feel this case has additional importance because it clearly demonstrates that, while the procedures which SIAC have adopted are not ideal, it is possible by using special advocates to ensure that those detained can achieve justice. It is wrong, therefore, to undervalue the SIAC appeal process"."Individuals who appeal to SIAC are undoubtedly under a grave disadvantage. So far as it is possible this disadvantage should be avoided or if it cannot be avoided minimised. However, the unfairness involved can be necessary because of the interests of national security. The involvement of a special advocate is intended to reduce (it cannot wholly eliminate) the unfairness which follows from the fact that an appellant will be unaware at least as to part of the case against him.689"The proceedings are as fair as could reasonably be achieved. It is true that the detainees and their lawyers do not have the opportunity of examining the closed material. However, the use of separate counsel to act on their behalf in relation to the closed evidence provides a substantial degree of protection. In addition, in deciding upon whether there has been compliance with Article 6 it is necessary to look at the proceedings as a whole (including the appeal before this court). When this is done and the exception in relation to national security, referred to in Article 6, is given due weight, I am satisfied there is no contravention of that article".Official Report,"Frankly, if such agents see this sort of thing happening in courts, and defence counsel—quite properly, given the interests of their client—revealing what should not be revealed, then we shall not have any agents … It is also one of the more serious aspects of terrorism that it is extremely difficult to find people with access, courage, determination and lasting power. We should not overlook the fact that they too have rights. They need to be protected—and need that protection more, I fear, than the person who would be on trial".—[Official Report,Official Report."I am extremely worried and disturbed at how intelligence material in general and interception material in particular is being advocated by some noble Lords as suitable for disclosure in court proceedings … That would be an extremely serious blow to any intelligence or law enforcement service".—[Official Report.: If I can just finish this point, I shall come back to the noble Lord.We feel this case has additional importance because it clearly demonstrates that, while the procedures which SIAC have adopted are not ideal, it is possible by using special advocates to ensure that those detained can achieve justice. It is wrong, therefore, to undervalue the SIAC appeal process"."Individuals who appeal to SIAC are undoubtedly under a grave disadvantage. So far as it is possible this disadvantage should be avoided or if it cannot be avoided minimised. However, the unfairness involved can be necessary because of the interests of national security. The involvement of a special advocate is intended to reduce (it cannot wholly eliminate) the unfairness which follows from the fact that an appellant will be unaware at least as to part of the case against him.689"The proceedings are as fair as could reasonably be achieved. It is true that the detainees and their lawyers do not have the opportunity of examining the closed material. However, the use of separate counsel to act on their behalf in relation to the closed evidence provides a substantial degree of protection. In addition, in deciding upon whether there has been compliance with Article 6 it is necessary to look at the proceedings as a whole (including the appeal before this court). When this is done and the exception in relation to national security, referred to in Article 6, is given due weight, I am satisfied there is no contravention of that article".Official Report,"Frankly, if such agents see this sort of thing happening in courts, and defence counsel—quite properly, given the interests of their client—revealing what should not be revealed, then we shall not have any agents … It is also one of the more serious aspects of terrorism that it is extremely difficult to find people with access, courage, determination and lasting power. We should not overlook the fact that they too have rights. They need to be protected—and need that protection more, I fear, than the person who would be on trial".—[Official Report,Official Report."I am extremely worried and disturbed at how intelligence material in general and interception material in particular is being advocated by some noble Lords as suitable for disclosure in court proceedings … That would be an extremely serious blow to any intelligence or law enforcement service".—[Official Report.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
688687: My Lords, this very important group of amendments is concerned with the rules of court and with torture. The first part of the proposals of the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, is intended to ensure that the rules of court made comply with Article 6 of the convention. We accept that they must, whether they are made by the Lord Chief Justice or the Lord Chancellor. If they do not, they can be struck down in accordance with the Human Rights Act 1998. So there is already legal protection in relation to the rules. We also submit that it is unnecessary in those circumstances to include the amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford.688687Lord Falconer of Thoroton
725Page 1, line 9, leave out "the Secretary of State or (as the case may be)"moved Amendment No. 1:
725Page 1, line 9, leave out "the Secretary of State or (as the case may be)"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Page 9, line 4, leave out "or the court"moved Amendment No. 2:
Page 9, line 4, leave out "or the court"Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Leave out Clause 10moved Amendment No. 3:
Leave out Clause 10Lord Falconer of Thoroton
726Leave out Clause 11moved Amendment No. 4:
726Leave out Clause 11Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I wish to say three things. First, I entirely endorse what the noble Lord, Lord Roper, said about the Public Bill Office, which has done a fantastic job. Secondly, it has been an incredibly testing experience for everybody in this House —as it has also been for all the officials, from the Home Office and the Department for Constitutional Affairs, who have done an absolutely fantastic job despite all the pressure that they were put under. Thirdly, whatever our disagreements over the content of the Bill, it has been a most civilised debate in this House. I am grateful to both opposition parties for achieving that; I thank them very much.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, will somebody enlighten us as to the relationship between this amendment and Amendment No, 28A, which has so far not been mentioned at all and does not appear to be grouped?Viscount Bledisloe
: My Lords, I rise to support my noble friend Lady Saltoun and to add one or two other questions to the ones that she has asked.Lord Northbourne
: My Lords, I appreciate the final sentence of the Minister's reply to the right reverend Prelate about the involvement of parents, but does he have any statistics on the number of adults working in childcare now who lack the necessary qualifications and therefore will have to be trained? How many more will be needed to fulfil the Government's programme for the expansion of Sure Start into children's centres?Lord Northbourne
650: I knew this Bill would get to me sooner or later, my Lords.650Lord Kingsland
Clause 13, page 16, line 4, leave out subsections (2) to (6)moved Amendment No. 16:
Clause 13, page 16, line 4, leave out subsections (2) to (6)Lord Kingsland
635Page 1, line 17, leave out "may include, in particular and insert "are"moved Amendment No. 5:
635Page 1, line 17, leave out "may include, in particular and insert "are"Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness for her reply. No doubt we can deal with her arguments on photographic evidence in the next amendment. I found her response to this amendment wholly unsatisfactory. If the Government were concerned about providing themselves with a window of opportunity to add to the list, they could have introduced a delegated procedure in the same clause. They have not done so; in those circumstances, I wish to divide the House.Lord Kingsland
663: My Lords, this matter has been very fully debated for the second time in 24 hours: so I can be extremely terse in my response. There are two issues for your Lordships. The first is, should there be a sunset clause at all? The second is, if so, when should it bite? On the first issue, the noble Baroness has not been prepared to give an undertaking that in another place the Government will introduce a sunset clause. So it is absolutely clear that if we do not put on to the statute book the principle of a sunset clause today, it will be dead.
663Lord Kingsland
Page 16, leave out lines 28 to 31moved Amendment No, 17:
Page 16, leave out lines 28 to 31Lord Kingsland
(7) The Secretary of State may make payments to persons appointed as members of the committee."667(6) The Secretary of State shall lay a copy of the report before Parliament as soon as is reasonably Practicable.(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and
(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and(5) The committee shall complete a review and send a report to the Secretary of State—(4) The Secretary of State may not refuse any nomination made under subsection (3).(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;
(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;(3) There shall be five members of the committee of whom one each will be nominated by—(2) A person may be a member of the committee only if he is a member of the Privy Council.(1) The Secretary of State shall appoint a committee to conduct a review of the operation of this Act.
(7) The Secretary of State may make payments to persons appointed as members of the committee."667(6) The Secretary of State shall lay a copy of the report before Parliament as soon as is reasonably Practicable.(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and
(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and(5) The committee shall complete a review and send a report to the Secretary of State—(4) The Secretary of State may not refuse any nomination made under subsection (3).(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;
(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;(3) There shall be five members of the committee of whom one each will be nominated by—(2) A person may be a member of the committee only if he is a member of the Privy Council.(1) The Secretary of State shall appoint a committee to conduct a review of the operation of this Act."REVIEW OF ACTAfter Clause 13, insert the Following new Clause—moved Amendment No, 18:
(7) The Secretary of State may make payments to persons appointed as members of the committee."667(6) The Secretary of State shall lay a copy of the report before Parliament as soon as is reasonably Practicable.(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and
(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and(5) The committee shall complete a review and send a report to the Secretary of State—(4) The Secretary of State may not refuse any nomination made under subsection (3).(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;
(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;(3) There shall be five members of the committee of whom one each will be nominated by—(2) A person may be a member of the committee only if he is a member of the Privy Council.(1) The Secretary of State shall appoint a committee to conduct a review of the operation of this Act.
(7) The Secretary of State may make payments to persons appointed as members of the committee."667(6) The Secretary of State shall lay a copy of the report before Parliament as soon as is reasonably Practicable.(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and
(b) not later than the end of eight months beginning With the day on which this Act is Passed.(a) not earlier than the end of four months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed; and(5) The committee shall complete a review and send a report to the Secretary of State—(4) The Secretary of State may not refuse any nomination made under subsection (3).(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;
(e) the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.(d) the Convenor of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords;(c) the Leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Commons;(b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons;(a) the Prime Minister;(3) There shall be five members of the committee of whom one each will be nominated by—(2) A person may be a member of the committee only if he is a member of the Privy Council.(1) The Secretary of State shall appoint a committee to conduct a review of the operation of this Act."REVIEW OF ACTAfter Clause 13, insert the Following new Clause—Lord Kingsland
(Limitation)."(2) Any recommendation made under subsection (1) shall not affect the operation of section (Limitation)."(Review of Act)(1) A report under section (Review of Act)
(Limitation)."(2) Any recommendation made under subsection (1) shall not affect the operation of section (Limitation)."(Review of Act)(1) A report under section (Review of Act)"EFFECT OF REPORTInsert the following new Clause—: My Lords, this matter has already been substantially debated by your Lordships. I am most grateful to the Minister for what she has just said. As she is well aware, I totally disagree with her. In these circumstances, I beg to move.(Limitation)."(2) Any recommendation made under subsection (1) shall not affect the operation of section (Limitation)."(Review of Act)(1) A report under section (Review of Act)
(Limitation)."(2) Any recommendation made under subsection (1) shall not affect the operation of section (Limitation)."(Review of Act)(1) A report under section (Review of Act)"EFFECT OF REPORTInsert the following new Clause—Lord Kingsland
[General interpretation]:"LIMITATIONmoved Amendment No. 20:
Insert the following new Clause—
[General interpretation]:"LIMITATIONLord Kingsland
: My Lords, in the most unusual circumstances.Lord Kingsland
630"Criminal investigations after making of control order"."The court may make a control order against an individual if it … has been informed by the Director of Public Prosecutions that there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity".: My Lords, I have nothing further to add to what the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, said, about the amendments in this group, except Amendment No. 12, with which I can deal telegraphically, as the substance of the matter was decided by your Lordships yesterday.630"Criminal investigations after making of control order"."The court may make a control order against an individual if it … has been informed by the Director of Public Prosecutions that there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity".Lord Kingsland
686: My Lords, perhaps this would be a convenient moment for me to rise, since Amendment No. 28A has been tabled by the Opposition.686Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for his response. On the question of equivalence between ourselves and Scotland, my noble friend Lord Forsyth has simply added great weight to the argument that I advanced when opening the debate on this amendment. The noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor says that this will be the first and only time that the rules will be made by the Lord Chancellor. That may be so; however, this is the Bill we are looking at now—and the first and only time is the way that the rules will be made in relation to the Bill. So, with great respect, I do not believe that that is an argument against our amendment.Lord Kingsland
"( ) The relevant rules of court shall be made by the Lord Chief Justice after consulting the Lord Chancellor."Schedule, page 19, line 30, leave out sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) and insert—moved Amendment No. 25:
"( ) The relevant rules of court shall be made by the Lord Chief Justice after consulting the Lord Chancellor."Schedule, page 19, line 30, leave out sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) and insert—Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord for his response: and in particular for his suggestion, at an earlier stage, that he would be inclined to withdraw paragraph 4(3)(a). Nevertheless, I am sorry to say that I feel compelled to press my amendment. The amendment will not in any way prevent the Lord Chief Justice, after consultation with the Lord Chancellor, from having a system such as the noble and learned Lord suggested.Lord Kingsland
"( ) The rules of court must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights."Page 20, line 11, leave out from beginning to end of line 3 on page 21 and insert—moved Amendment No. 28A:
"( ) The rules of court must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights."Page 20, line 11, leave out from beginning to end of line 3 on page 21 and insert—Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, my name is also on this amendment, and for the reasons given by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, we entirely support it.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I endorse everything that has just been said by the Chief Whip from the Liberal Democrat Benches.Lord Kingsland
683: My Lords, not for the first time, I support the arguments adduced by my noble friend Lord Judd. I do so on several grounds. Evidence acquired by torture is totally unreliable and, for that reason, it ought to be no part of our law.683Lord Clinton-Davis
: I have no objection to the amendments moved by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas, but they ought not to be included in the Bill. I have not had an opportunity to consider them carefully.Lord Clinton-Davis
629: My Lords, as I understand it, although I have not had the opportunity to consider it all, the amendment is explanatory. Am I right? If I am, it is incumbent on the Government to come forward at
629Lord Clinton-Davis
: I am much obliged to the noble Lord, but I have not had the opportunity to consider the material. I just picked it up a few minutes ago. I wonder whether he would be able to take it away and come hack to it on Third Reading.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, if my noble friend were to go slightly further and say that by February or March a sunset clause would be considered, I hope that the House would accept that. At the moment we have nothing whatever to offer.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, I entirely agree with the point that has just been made except in one respect, on which I adopt the argument of the noble Lord, Lord Williamson. As I said on Second Reading and later, I am in favour of the sunset clause. However, I am unhappy about the date of 30 November prescribed in the amendment.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, the introduction of a sunset clause at some convenient and appropriate parliamentary time is necessary for Parliament to fulfil its essential duty to seek to make good law after reasonable consideration. I remind the House that, in December last year, the Judicial Committee of this House, in ringing tones, found that Part 4 of the antiterrorism Act of 2001 was in fundamental breach of civil liberties and human rights. I regret to say that that constitutes a blemish on the parliamentary activity that we engaged in on that Bill. Do we want to repeat the same mistake? Another blemish of a greater kind would surely lead to us not having clone our duty to seek to make good law. It is a duty after reasonable consideration.Lord Brennan
: My Lords, while I recognise the profits made by banks, can my noble friend advise the House, and particularly me, of the extent to which the banks contribute to the well-being of the British economy?Lord Davies of Coity
Every Child Matters: My Lords, as ever the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, has challenged me on the specifics of the detail. I can say for certain that when we publish the children's workforce strategy in the near future, we expect to set out very clearly how the whole workforce needs to develop. As he knows, we set out for the first time in 2001 clear national standards for the training and development of childcare workers where there had previously not been any standards. However, he is right to raise a wider issue about the extent to which the children's workforce will need, over time, to develop its richness and skills to meet the pedagogic goals set by the Every Child MattersLord Filkin
: My Lords, the long-term funding for Sure Start could not be stronger. What started off as a 10-year pilot has now been accepted by the Government to be a permanent part of the infrastructure for children. That is instanced by the figure that I gave earlier that we will expand to 2,500 Sure Start centres embedded in children's centres by 2008 and 3,500 by 2010. There are realistic implementation plans to deliver that and make it a reality. Of course, the involvement of parents, which has been such a critical part of the success of Sure Start, must be embedded into the development of Sure Start into children's centres.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I am not anything like as depressed as the noble Earl, Lord Listowel. I am not saying that the quality of all nursery education is perfect, but there are many good nursery facilities and many excellent early years facilities. I agree with him that raising quality is a continual goal. We are clear that quality childcare and early years education make the difference. It is not just the supply; it has to be good quality to raise children's educational and social development rather than just to "mind them". Therefore that is firmly on our agenda.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I can categorically assure my noble friend on the last part of her question. We plan to expand from the 500 Sure Start centres to some 2,500 by 2008 and embedded in those will be the principles that have proved so successful in the Sure Start programme to date. Of course, as she said, Sure Start has demonstrated the ability to give women more choice over their own lives in ways that they think appropriate and to help the development of children so that they are able to live more fulfilled lives in the future.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, is absolutely right. Part of the common core training for all those who work with children is the identification of harm and risk, as it should be. The answer to her earlier question is that we are seeking to ensure that all people who work with children have that common core as part of their developmental training, so increasingly there is a convergence of training across sectors. That allows people who go in as childcare workers to progress to more senior positions and to other parts of the childcare workforce. That is what they want and what we need to ensure that we do not lose talented people from the children's workforce.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I very much appreciate those words. When I met Home-Start recently I was, like the noble Lord, very impressed indeed with the work that it has done. I shall be delighted to pass on his compliments in the courteous way that he has expressed them.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I am virtually certain that it has happened because we know that we already have more than 500 Sure Start schemes. There has been an amazing growth of the Sure Start workforce and of the childcare workforce over recent years. Local authorities have responded well to the growing childcare workforce and to growing early years education, which is equally important. Just to give that focus, we have created 1.6 million new childcare places over the past seven years and, of course, a workforce that goes behind that to make those places a reality.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, we are providing £129 million to local authorities in England over the two years 2004–06 for developing the early years and childcare workforce. We are also working closely with the Learning and Skills Council and nationally to raise the profile of the childcare sector and help to ensure that training provision meets demand. All local LSCs and local authorities now have shared targets for training childcare workers.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
659: My Lords, we must have this clause because it will lend a sense of urgency to the Government in bringing forward legislation which we can properly consider and indeed agree with. However, like the noble Lord, Lord Brennan. who has just spoken, I am concerned about the parliamentary process. I understand that the Commons will have only three hours to consider all the major amendments that we have made to the Bill so far, including the particular amendment that we are discussing. If that is
659Lord Stoddart of Swindon
715: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Maxton, in making the case for fluoridation also made the case against it. He made it quite clear that there is an alternative to mass fluoridation and mass medication: proper dental health being imposed by parents. Indeed, as he says, that is what happens with most middle-class parents.715Lord Stoddart of Swindon
653: My Lords, in Committee I pointed out that the Bill went through the other place on a very tight timetable. Before it left the other place, the Government announced that they would introduce fundamental amendments in this place. A few days ago, I pointed out that the consequence of that would be that the Bill would never be considered properly in the House of Commons because when it returns to the House of Commons, all the deliberations will again take place under a grotesquely tight timetable.
653Lord Waddington
Official Report,"we do not believe that a sunset clause on these provisions is appropriate. That is the current view of the Government".— [Official Report,: My Lords, I did not intervene at Committee stage on this point, but I would like to intervene now having heard a large number of arguments earlier. I will be brief.Official Report,"we do not believe that a sunset clause on these provisions is appropriate. That is the current view of the Government".— [Official Report,Lord Williamson of Horton
: My Lords, I would have thought that the need for a sunset clause is absolutely obvious. The judicial process has been distorted by the rush on which the Government have insisted. Therefore, it is inevitable that there should be a sunset clause, focusing attention on how we should achieve cross-party agreement.Lord Ackner
660: My Lords, I think that the noble Earl is saying Belmarsh today and Securicor tomorrow. I wish to make it clear from these Benches
660Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I do not propose to enter into a debate now on Amendment No. 12—which is, in any event, not my amendment. We take the view that the proper way to deal with the Bill as it stands is to send it to the other place in the "construct", to use the words of the noble Baroness, which the whole House—and not, as the noble Baroness put it, the Members opposite—has decided upon. For that reason, I propose to press Amendment No. 1.Lord Thomas of Gresford
Leave out Clause 2 and insert the following new Clause—moved Amendment No. 9:
Leave out Clause 2 and insert the following new Clause—Lord Thomas of Gresford
Clause 3, leave out Clause 3 and insert the following new Clause—moved Amendment No. 10:
Clause 3, leave out Clause 3 and insert the following new Clause—Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, there is no new material in the amendment. It follows the machinery the Government were proposing when they were simply talking about a derogating order. We are saying that, following the decisions we took yesterday, the preliminary hearing followed by the full hearing in court are to apply to control orders generally.Lord Thomas of Gresford
inter partes,ex parteex parte628Clause 1, page 1, line 7, leave out from beginning to first "by" in line 11.moved Amendment No. 1:
inter partes,ex parteex parte628Clause 1, page 1, line 7, leave out from beginning to first "by" in line 11.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, we believe that the clause as drafted would not leave it open to the court, at the preliminary stage, to make a final determination on the validity of a derogation order passed through Parliament. That would be a matter for the full hearing; but, as happened in the case of A—which eventually ended up in the Judicial Committee of the House—it would be open to the High Court to consider that very question. If I may reply—Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, it would be entirely out of order for me to respond at this stage. We have discussed and voted on that particular point. Indeed, the particular subsection to which the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson, referred is already in the Bill as originally drafted. It is not new material that we are putting in with this amendment.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, on Report it is only the proposer who has a right of reply. If the noble and learned Lord wishes to interrupt me, I shall obviously give way.Lord Thomas of Gresford
698: My Lords, we on these Benches support the amendment. We have some
698Lord Thomas of Gresford
695: My Lords, the judge who is considering this material has the interests of the public at heart. That is why he is there. He is a public officer and he is clearly concerned to carry out a balance between the safety of the public and the rights of the defendant. Very often a judge will ensure that the material which is before him is not released. It is only when he says, "In my opinion, carrying out the balance between the public safety and the rights of the defendant, the rights of the defendant prevail", and the prosecution say, "In those circumstances we disagree with you, judge", that a prosecution is withdrawn. The judge does not sit there thinking to himself, "Forget about the public, forget about safety". That is his function in all these terrorist trials.695Lord Thomas of Gresford
694: My Lords, I very rarely accuse the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor of being impatient, but I shall come to that point in a very short time, for obvious reasons. I started by saying that what is a fair trial varies between the different types of issues. Certainly in the case of deportation, the matter has been ruled on twice by the Court of Appeal—not by the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords—which has been satisfied in that type of proceedings with the special advocate system. The procedures before SIAC have also been approved at certain levels.694Lord Thomas of Gresford
693: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for everything that he has said. I shall turn to his questions to me in a moment.693Lord Thomas of Gresford
680"to the relevant party and his legal representatives — a summary of the allegations made against him"."attend … make representations, question witnesses and call evidence subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (d)"—"given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings","the relevant party and his legal representative""must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights".679(e) ensure that the proceedings shall be determined with a hearing unless all the parties agree to it being determined without a hearing."(d) secure that the Secretary of State is required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose to the relevant court and, subject only to the court's discretion on an application ex parte by the Secretary of State for public interest immunity, to a relevant party any relevant material which may harm or assist the relevant party's case:(c) make provision for the exclusion of evidence in control proceedings which the Secretary of State knows or reasonably suspects has been obtained by torture in any jurisdiction;(b) ensure that the Secretary of State supplies to the relevant party and his legal representatives at the commencement of control order proceedings, a summary of the allegations made against him;(a) ensure that the relevant party and his legal representatives are given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings and are able to attend for the duration of those proceedings, make representations, question witnesses and call evidence subject to the provisions in sub-paragraph (d) below;
(e) ensure that the proceedings shall be determined with a hearing unless all the parties agree to it being determined without a hearing."(d) secure that the Secretary of State is required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose to the relevant court and, subject only to the court's discretion on an application ex parte by the Secretary of State for public interest immunity, to a relevant party any relevant material which may harm or assist the relevant party's case:(c) make provision for the exclusion of evidence in control proceedings which the Secretary of State knows or reasonably suspects has been obtained by torture in any jurisdiction;(b) ensure that the Secretary of State supplies to the relevant party and his legal representatives at the commencement of control order proceedings, a summary of the allegations made against him;(a) ensure that the relevant party and his legal representatives are given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings and are able to attend for the duration of those proceedings, make representations, question witnesses and call evidence subject to the provisions in sub-paragraph (d) below;"4 Rules of court in the exercise of the relevant powers must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and in particular, must—Page 20, line 10, leave out paragraph 4 and insert—moved Amendment No. 28:
680"to the relevant party and his legal representatives — a summary of the allegations made against him"."attend … make representations, question witnesses and call evidence subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (d)"—"given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings","the relevant party and his legal representative""must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights".679(e) ensure that the proceedings shall be determined with a hearing unless all the parties agree to it being determined without a hearing."(d) secure that the Secretary of State is required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose to the relevant court and, subject only to the court's discretion on an application ex parte by the Secretary of State for public interest immunity, to a relevant party any relevant material which may harm or assist the relevant party's case:(c) make provision for the exclusion of evidence in control proceedings which the Secretary of State knows or reasonably suspects has been obtained by torture in any jurisdiction;(b) ensure that the Secretary of State supplies to the relevant party and his legal representatives at the commencement of control order proceedings, a summary of the allegations made against him;(a) ensure that the relevant party and his legal representatives are given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings and are able to attend for the duration of those proceedings, make representations, question witnesses and call evidence subject to the provisions in sub-paragraph (d) below;
(e) ensure that the proceedings shall be determined with a hearing unless all the parties agree to it being determined without a hearing."(d) secure that the Secretary of State is required for the purposes of any control order proceedings or relevant appeal proceedings to disclose to the relevant court and, subject only to the court's discretion on an application ex parte by the Secretary of State for public interest immunity, to a relevant party any relevant material which may harm or assist the relevant party's case:(c) make provision for the exclusion of evidence in control proceedings which the Secretary of State knows or reasonably suspects has been obtained by torture in any jurisdiction;(b) ensure that the Secretary of State supplies to the relevant party and his legal representatives at the commencement of control order proceedings, a summary of the allegations made against him;(a) ensure that the relevant party and his legal representatives are given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings and are able to attend for the duration of those proceedings, make representations, question witnesses and call evidence subject to the provisions in sub-paragraph (d) below;"4 Rules of court in the exercise of the relevant powers must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and in particular, must—Page 20, line 10, leave out paragraph 4 and insert—Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I welcome the Minister's aspirations and what has been achieved through Sure Start. Does he recognise that much of current nursery provision is of a poor quality? Does he have plans to assist the workforce—mostly women—to ensure that they can organise themselves so that their pay, training and ongoing support better reflect the critical nature of their work?The Earl of Listowel
681: My Lords, we should all be immensely grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, for having returned to this issue at the Report stage. In our deliberations on the Bill, there has been a great deal of concentration on Article 5, of course, establishing what are the human rights that are there to be protected. But that is of no value unless the legal processes for ensuring that that happens are in place. Therefore the amendment is crucially important in principle and in practice.681Lord Judd
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, perhaps I may make the point that in no way was I suggesting that we use torture. I was suggesting that if in decisions we were making information which had become available because of torture elsewhere was being used, this would be to hand the extremists a propaganda weapon.Lord Judd
Official Report,"determined by local consultations conducted by strategic health authorities in England and the National Assembly in Wales".— [Official Report,"no new fluoridation scheme would go ahead without the support of the majority of the local population"—709"A Strategic Health Authority shall not proceed with any step regarding fluoridation arrangements that falls within section 89(2) of the Act unless, having regard to the extent of support for the proposal and the cogency of the arguments advanced, the Authority are satisfied that the health arguments in favour of proceeding with the proposal outweigh all arguments against proceeding"."the research evidence is of insufficient quality to allow confident statements about other potential harms or whether there is an impact on social inequalities".708: My Lords, the House will be grateful to the Minister for his helpful explanation of the orders. I begin by making it clear that for my party water fluoridation is a matter of individual conscience. It is not an issue on which we wish to impose an official party position. What follows represents a personal view, although it is a view that is shared widely on the Conservative Front Bench, both here and in another place.Official Report,"determined by local consultations conducted by strategic health authorities in England and the National Assembly in Wales".— [Official Report,"no new fluoridation scheme would go ahead without the support of the majority of the local population"—709"A Strategic Health Authority shall not proceed with any step regarding fluoridation arrangements that falls within section 89(2) of the Act unless, having regard to the extent of support for the proposal and the cogency of the arguments advanced, the Authority are satisfied that the health arguments in favour of proceeding with the proposal outweigh all arguments against proceeding"."the research evidence is of insufficient quality to allow confident statements about other potential harms or whether there is an impact on social inequalities".708Earl Howe
723722: My Lords, on behalf of these Benches I express my appreciation to the Minister for introducing the order, which I welcome without hesitation. As he rightly says it is the latest in a series of reforms to the regulation of the healthcare professions heralded originally by the NHS plan. I am in complete unanimity with him on the desirability of maintaining
723722Earl Howe
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Dykes
626laissez-faire: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that Answer. With interest rates to lenders ranging from the nearly invisible to merely miniscule and rates to borrowers going from 9 per cent to 39 per cent, we see the fate of hapless, ordinary, private customers of the British retail and clearing banks. Will the Minister and the Government overcome their natural 626laissez-faireLord Dykes
712Official Report,"provides for local communities, after consultation, and after an informed discussion, to take steps to give their strategic health authorities a clear message that they want their water to be fluoridated. On the evidence that I have heard today, I do not see a case for denying those communities that choice".—[Official Report,"In a nutshell, the amendment"—"We shall continue with our research programme … and monitor the outcome of the research conducted in other countries … We have made the regulations under which we want any new local consultations to be conducted".: My Lords, it is not my intention to prolong the debate this evening, but I have been involved with discussions in this House on fluoridation for over 35 years. I feel that I should make a brief contribution. I declare an interest as a practising dental surgeon, although of course it is not really an interest, because the fewer caries there are, the less work I have to do.712Official Report,"provides for local communities, after consultation, and after an informed discussion, to take steps to give their strategic health authorities a clear message that they want their water to be fluoridated. On the evidence that I have heard today, I do not see a case for denying those communities that choice".—[Official Report,"In a nutshell, the amendment"—"We shall continue with our research programme … and monitor the outcome of the research conducted in other countries … We have made the regulations under which we want any new local consultations to be conducted".Lord Colwyn
[Power to make control orders]:: My Lords, before I call Amendment No. 1, I should point out that if Amendment No. 1 is agreed to I cannot call Amendment No. 2 because of pre-emption.[Power to make control orders]:The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
: The Question is that this amendment be agreed to. As many as are of that opinion will say, "Content". To the contrary, "Not-Content".The Chairman of Committees
: I think the Contents have it.The Chairman of Committees
"there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity".: My Lords, my noble friend, Lord Kingsland, in speaking to Amendment No. 12 has brought us into Clause 2 and the role of the Director of Public Prosecutions in making non-derogation control orders."there is no reasonable prospect of a successful prosecution of the individual for the terrorism-related activity".The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, that was a revealing and interesting response. In due course, we may find out in which areas these advisers are likely to be called upon. In the light of the noble and learned Lord's response, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.The Duke of Montrose
Hansard703Page 21, line 27, after "Chancellor" insert "or, in Scotland, the Lord President"moved Amendment No. 34:
Hansard703Page 21, line 27, after "Chancellor" insert "or, in Scotland, the Lord President"The Duke of Montrose
: My Lords, I must advise noble Lords that if Amendment No. 28 is agreed to, I cannot call Amendments Nos. 28A to 32, due to pre-emption.The Deputy Speaker
: My Lords, in the second Division this afternoon on Amendment No. 7, the number voting "Content" should have been 240, not 241 as previously announced.The Deputy Speaker (Viscount Simon)
ex parte stage,: My Lords, may I ask a perfectly simple question before the noble Lord replies? I wholly support the idea of the DPP looking at these cases. and, if possible, bringing a criminal prosecution. I am wholly in favour of Amendment No. 12, which provides for that. However, could there be a problem, in an exceptional case, with subsection (1)(c) of the new clause in Amendment No. 9? It requires that the DPP shall consider the matter and advise that no criminal prosecution is possible at the moment, before a control order is made. Could we not face an urgent case in which we could not afford the delay, and that it ought to be possible to make a control order at the ex parte stage,Lord Donaldson of Lymington
670: My Lords, I fully understand the feelings of the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, but this is not the natural order of proceedings. That approach is never used in civil work. True, it is the natural progression in criminal work, but in civil work you go to the High Court—or the county court, come to that—and say, "Look, I want a preliminary order because of the urgency. It is purely tentative, and we are asking for it in the absence of the other party. Please give us the order to protect the situation, and then we, the same court, will hold a full hearing as soon as possible that the defendant can attend". I think I am right in saying that that is the universal procedure in civil proceedings. The
670Lord Donaldson of Lymington
714: My Lords, like my noble friend, it was not my intention to speak in this debate. When I was Member of Parliament at the other end, I too campaigned to have fluoride put in the water—in Scotland, I hasten to add, and these regulations will not do that, of course. We need it, but that is a matter for the Scottish Parliament.714Lord Maxton
: My Lords, I do not suppose that the noble Baroness will agree, but her original Answer to my noble friend seemed optimistic and opaque in the extreme.Lord Peyton of Yeovil
: My Lords, I do not want to detain the House for too long. We have had very useful debates. We could not have had those debates if our Public Bill Office had not been so efficient in producing the papers for us. I believe that we should refer to that before we agree the Motion.Lord Roper
713: My Lords, I declare an interest as the president of the British Fluoridation Society, a role which is, of course, unremunerated. I clearly welcome the two sets of regulations put before us today by my noble friend.713Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that, notwithstanding the number of black excisions from the records of the management of our exit from the exchange rate mechanism, there was sufficient information there for every citizen to be clearly informed about the thundering mess that was made of economic management at that time?Lord Tomlinson
655: My Lords, noble Lords who, by their advocacy of a sunset clause for November of this year, have expressed concern about the speed with which this legislation is going through the House and through the other place, seem to be in danger of creating precisely that problem a few months down the road. The noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, talked of us considering the next Bill which could be dealt with by November. The reality is that we would be rushing through what we are told will be a much more complicated Bill, which will consider offences in relation to acts preparatory to terrorism and so on. in an equally unsatisfactory timetable.655Lord Harris of Haringey
: My Lords, perhaps I may direct your Lordships' attention to the provision that affects Scotland. Preliminary hearing proceedings relating to a control order would take place before the Sheriff of Lothian and Borders.Lord Cameron of Lochbroom
: My Lords, I shall be brief, and bishops do not have hind legs, so cannot be argued with in that part of their anatomy. Hindsight can be convenient, and in an ideal world this Bill should have been given much more time. For various reasons, some of them understandable and some of them less so, it has not.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, the Government have recently emphasised the importance of local consultation with parents. Will the Minister give an assurance about the long-term funding strategy? If that is to develop, there must be some kind of long-term plan.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords—Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord. I wanted to ask exactly the same question as the noble Lord, Lord Lester. After that last exchange, I shall now put a residual point. The work of the special advocates has been described, quite rightly, by the noble Lord, Lord Lester, as remarkable. Taking account of the fact that, in such circumstances, there will be information that cannot be disclosed, surely, even in the light of the amendments to the procedures described by the noble and learned Lord, it would not be right to give the House the impression that, although special advocates who do not resign are happy with the situation, they are completely happy?Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: My Lords, I had not intended to speak in this short debate, but I want to make two comments.Lord Turnberg
: My Lords, will my noble friend comment on an important group of customers of the banks; namely, small businesses? Is the Chancellor of the Exchequer being successful in trying to encourage banks to be more helpful towards small businesses, who often experience great difficulties in maintaining their prosperity because the banks are so unhelpful?Lord Harrison
: My Lords, terrorism, as your Lordships know, means that government will rule by fear. In this. the Government have been extremely successful.Lord Selsdon
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that it is largely the profits of the banks—and commerce and industry generally—and those who work for them which pay the taxes that support the public sector in this country, which has burgeoned under the present Government?Lord Pearson of Rannoch
652: My Lords, earlier this afternoon, the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland, in answer I think to my noble friend Lord Forsyth, said that the comment that this Bill was being rushed did
652Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
"relevant material which may harm or assist the relevant party's case".684"The preliminary hearing under subsection 1(a) may be held in the absence of the individual in question; without his having notice of the application for the order; and without his having been given an opportunity (if he was aware of the application) of making any representations"."to hold an immediate preliminary hearing"."ensure that the relevant party and his legal representatives are given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings and are able to attend".: My Lords, while fully accepting, understanding and agreeing with the principle which the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, is trying to achieve, I am concerned about some of the wording of this particular amendment, and whether it is obtainable as the noble Lord has expressed it."relevant material which may harm or assist the relevant party's case".684"The preliminary hearing under subsection 1(a) may be held in the absence of the individual in question; without his having notice of the application for the order; and without his having been given an opportunity (if he was aware of the application) of making any representations"."to hold an immediate preliminary hearing"."ensure that the relevant party and his legal representatives are given notice of all control order proceedings and relevant appeal proceedings and are able to attend".Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: My Lords, if the noble Baroness has something to say about the amendment that we are discussing, we would be delighted to hear what she has to say. I believe that the general view is that what she is saying, however interesting it may be, is a long way from the amendment.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I am extremely sorry to interrupt the noble Baroness, but her speech is beginning to sound precisely like a Second Reading speech. This is Report stage.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, may I help the House by reminding your Lordships that we are on Report—Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
"Only the mover of an amendment or the Lord in charge of the bill speaks after the minister on report except for short questions of elucidation to the minister".Companion: My Lords, we are in the most unusual circumstances, as the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, tells me. Paragraph 6.126 of the "Only the mover of an amendment or the Lord in charge of the bill speaks after the minister on report except for short questions of elucidation to the minister".CompanionLord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister. Is not the fact that a matter of such importance is being added to the list at this stage an indication that it is very important to take time to consider these matters before rushing legislation through the House?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, I know that the Minister thinks that I am just being an irritant, but that amendment seems important. It makes me wonder whether fingerprints or other things should be included. It worries me that, if such provisions are being added at this stage, perhaps the matter has not been thought through. The difficulty with having a list is that you need to know that it is comprehensive. The speed with which this is being considered is a legitimate consideration and makes one wonder whether the Government have thought it through.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, before the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor sits down, could he deal with something? I am rather bewildered by that response, although I welcome the parliamentary scrutiny which he said he will concede. Could he explain why it is all right for the Scots to have a judge determining this and why it can be done within the timetable in Scotland, but the same cannot be done in England? That was the point which my noble friend made. The implication of what the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor is saying is that something would go wrong—given the urgency—if it were left to a judge, rather than to the Lord Chancellor. Where does that leave Scotland?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, just before the noble and learned Lord sits down, while I do not wish to detain the House, this is an important matter. I cannot get my mind around why it can be right to have one set of rules which apply in Scotland, and another set of rules which apply in England on a matter which concerns terrorism. I keep being told by the noble Baroness, Lady Scotland, that it is not a devolved matter. I understand, of course, that the rules of court are a devolved matter, arising because of what the Government did in respect of devolution.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
641: My Lords, I promise your Lordships that this is the only time that I shall speak this afternoon. I have put my name to the amendment because the case made yesterday by the noble Lady, Lady Saltoun, was overwhelming and received no proper answer from the Government. As she said, to ask people to pay for their own imprisonment and starvation, which is a logical conclusion of the
641The Earl of Onslow
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Fowler
: My Lords, I am grateful for that reply. Papers have been released containing the views of officials on our withdrawal from the ERM. Will she say when the views of officials will be available on the decision to invade Iraq? Will she also confirm that ministerial papers relating to Iraq will still be covered by the 30-year rule?Lord Fowler
719"We believe that the draft regulations provide a sensible and workable framework by which strategic health authorities must consult on future water fluoridation proposals".718717: My Lords, we have had an interesting rerun in some respects of the debates on the Water Act 2003. We have a bit of time while the Prevention of Terrorism Bill is printed, but I do not want to go over all that debate again. I agree with my noble friend Lord Tomlinson that we have had this discussion, Parliament has spoken, and an Act which was certified by the responsible Minister as compatible with the Human Rights Act 1998 has passed Parliament. We are talking about the narrower set of issues in the consultation regulations and in the indemnity regulations.719"We believe that the draft regulations provide a sensible and workable framework by which strategic health authorities must consult on future water fluoridation proposals".718717Lord Warner
(Lord Warner.)[10th Report from the Joint Committee: My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Lord Warner.)[10th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Warner
(Lord Warner.)10th Report from the Joint Committee]."These changes are welcome as they pave the way for more efficient and transparent processes within the GOC as well as bringing the processes into line with those of the other healthcare professionals"."full support for these proposals, which are absolutely necessary to make the GOC more effective in protecting the public … I hope that the consultation and legislative processes will proceed speedily so that the GOC can implement the proposed changes as soon as possible".721720[10th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 24 February be approved (Lord Warner.)10th Report from the Joint Committee]."These changes are welcome as they pave the way for more efficient and transparent processes within the GOC as well as bringing the processes into line with those of the other healthcare professionals"."full support for these proposals, which are absolutely necessary to make the GOC more effective in protecting the public … I hope that the consultation and legislative processes will proceed speedily so that the GOC can implement the proposed changes as soon as possible".721720[10th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Warner
(Lord Warner.)[10th Report from the Joint Committee].707706705[10th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 22 February be approved (Lord Warner.)[10th Report from the Joint Committee].707706705[10th Report from the Joint Committee].The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, I shall answer the last question first, mainly because I know that I do not know the answer. I also have the figure of 100, but what it is 100 out of, I am not altogether sure. I need to look into the details of the research and then I will write to the noble Baroness. Mis-selling is covered by the regulations and would be misconduct.Lord Warner
: My Lords, many of the papers released from the Treasury, to which the noble Lord, Lord Fowler, referred, and which have been reproduced in the press, have shown a number of excisions in black ink. Will the Minister tell us whose authority has to be given for those excisions to be made; and whether the excisions remain in perpetuity when the papers are returned to the Public Record Office?Lord Wright of Richmond
: My Lords, having succeeded the late Lady Brigstocke last year as chairman of Home-Start International, may I thank the Minister for the help that the charity and our voluntary schemes around the world, particularly in Africa, are receiving both from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and from the Department for International Development? Will the Minister please convey our thanks to those departments?Lord Wright of Richmond
: My Lords, if all Members of your Lordships' House read the report of the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee very carefully, they will notice that the committee said that an affirmative resolution procedure should be chosen. We were well aware of the urgency and therefore of the need to use the emergency procedure which has just been described by the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart.Lord Dahrendorf
: My Lords, I made a speech at Second Reading in favour of that view. I still hold to that view, having listened to all the speeches since. I would certainly support the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, in the view that he is taking. As I said yesterday, while I am in favour of control orders, they should be made as compliant as possible with both human rights legislation and, more broadly, common law assumptions about constitutionality, the rule of law, and so on. The argument, it seems to me, is that the control orders, which are currently both indefinite in their formulation and open-ended in their number, should be frozen in their present form.Lord Plant of Highfield
657Guardian: My Lords, I am very sympathetic to the position taken by my noble friend Lady Hayman. I have two reservations about the sunset clause. Given my voting record over the past couple of days, my noble friends on the Front Bench may be surprised that I have these reservations; but I do not think that my reasons will be greatly welcome.657GuardianLord Plant of Highfield
: My Lords, despite what the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, has said about the long, long vacation, there are, as the noble Lord, Lord Clinton-Davis, emphasised, severe practical difficulties about that date of 30 November 2005. Perhaps the Government could indicate whether they would be willing in principle to accept a sunset clause, let us say for 30 November 2006.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords—The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords, what is meant by the words in government Amendment No. 2, "court under section 2"? Does the Minister envisage the provision being along the same lines as that of the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, and other noble Lords or do you have something different in mind?The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for giving way. He has been at great pains to show how considerable the thinking of the Government has been behind this. If material is not disclosed to the suspect, is it then not possible for the special advocate to form a view about what the possible answers might be which would render the evidence much less persuasive, such as a complete alibi, or a mistaken identity of some evidence?Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Plant, made a penetrating observation when he said that one of the reasons for delaying the implementation beyond November is that private sector companies would have to be involved and that contracts would have to be drawn up and signed. That was a surprising piece of information. Will the noble Baroness give an assurance that private companies will not be involved?Earl Ferrers
Living without fear,: My Lords, according to the Government's paper, Living without fear,Viscount Bridgeman
: My Lords, that is sage advice. I remind the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Oxford and the noble Lord, Lord Harris of Haringey, that we are in confident expectation of a general election at the beginning of May. That leaves the parliamentary programme clear for June and July, as well as October and November. There is much more time available than people seem to think.Lord Elton
: My Lords, will the noble Baroness tell us a bit about the amendment because it is not in a group? It stands by itself.Lord Elton
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, perhaps she will elucidate on what she said in one regard. If there are children of a single parent who are normally taken to school by that parent, what is the provision in the Bill, or outwith the Bill, to ensure that those children are still escorted by a reliable individual when the parent is housebound by an order?Lord Elton
Clause 6, page 9, line 5, leave out "or the court"moved Amendment No. 11:
Clause 6, page 9, line 5, leave out "or the court"Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, we certainly support Amendment No. 5. It seems to us that it is wholly improper for there to be no restriction whatever on the kind of obligation that can be imposed on the person who is subject to the control order. It is not even suggested, for example, that any addition to the list should require the affirmative resolution by both Houses of Parliament, which might be an acceptable variation. Certainly, we think it improper to say that—subject, I accept, to the Human Rights Act—the kind of order that can be imposed here is entirely within the discretion of the Secretary of State.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that 23 categories of exemption are too many? Do the Government accept that when we have had a few more months' experience of the Freedom of Information Act, it will be necessary to set up an independent review to reconsider whether further access to information will be necessary?Lord Goodhart
: Could I explain to the noble Lord, Lord Clinton-Davis, that this material is already in the Bill, and is simply being rearranged? That is the point of Amendments Nos. 9 and 10—they simply shift some of the material that is currently in Clause 2 into Clause 3, and some from Clause 3 into Clause 2. That will create a logical structure in which Clause 2 deals with the making of control orders and Clause 3 ends up dealing with their duration. Every word of the material, with the exception of one minor consequential amendment, is already in the Bill.Lord Goodhart
Page 20, line 5, leave out "by the Lord Chancellor"moved Amendment No. 26:
Page 20, line 5, leave out "by the Lord Chancellor"Lord Goodhart
673: My Lords, we too support the amendment moved by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. We feel it is very important that the making of the rules should be in the hands of the judiciary, and not be merely a matter of consultation. We also feel that it should be subject to parliamentary approval;
673Lord Goodhart
702(b) if not approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament before the end of 40 days beginning with the day on which the order was made, cease to have effect at the end of that period."(a) must be laid before Parliament after being made; and
(b) if not approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament before the end of 40 days beginning with the day on which the order was made, cease to have effect at the end of that period."(a) must be laid before Parliament after being made; and(8) "Rules of court under this paragraph in relation to proceedings in England and Wales—Page 21, line 23, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 33:
702(b) if not approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament before the end of 40 days beginning with the day on which the order was made, cease to have effect at the end of that period."(a) must be laid before Parliament after being made; and
(b) if not approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament before the end of 40 days beginning with the day on which the order was made, cease to have effect at the end of that period."(a) must be laid before Parliament after being made; and(8) "Rules of court under this paragraph in relation to proceedings in England and Wales—Page 21, line 23, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the victims of domestic violence include the children of the household? Will she give an assurance that when the police are called to households in these circumstances they will report on the children's welfare to social services?Lord Laming
656: My Lords, I shall not repeat everything I said last night, although it is terribly tempting, given how many more people are here to hear it this afternoon than were here at ten o'clock last night.656Baroness Hayman
669ex parte(iii) in Northern Ireland, such county court judge or resident magistrate as is designated by the Lord Chancellor."(ii) in Scotland, the Sheriff of Lothian and Borders;(i) in England and Wales, the senior district judge (chief magistrate) or another district judge (magistrates' courts) designated by him for the purposes of the Act;
(iii) in Northern Ireland, such county court judge or resident magistrate as is designated by the Lord Chancellor."(ii) in Scotland, the Sheriff of Lothian and Borders;(i) in England and Wales, the senior district judge (chief magistrate) or another district judge (magistrates' courts) designated by him for the purposes of the Act;"(za) in relation to the preliminary hearing of proceedings relating to a control order means—Clause 14, page 17, line 3, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 21:
669ex parte(iii) in Northern Ireland, such county court judge or resident magistrate as is designated by the Lord Chancellor."(ii) in Scotland, the Sheriff of Lothian and Borders;(i) in England and Wales, the senior district judge (chief magistrate) or another district judge (magistrates' courts) designated by him for the purposes of the Act;
(iii) in Northern Ireland, such county court judge or resident magistrate as is designated by the Lord Chancellor."(ii) in Scotland, the Sheriff of Lothian and Borders;(i) in England and Wales, the senior district judge (chief magistrate) or another district judge (magistrates' courts) designated by him for the purposes of the Act;"(za) in relation to the preliminary hearing of proceedings relating to a control order means—Clause 14, page 17, line 3, at end insert—Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, before my noble friend sits down, I am grateful to her for mentioning what I said but accuracy is important here. She talked about a review: I talked about renewal. My bottom line is not just the opportunity but the necessity for both Houses of Parliament to consider formally whether such legislation should continue to be in place. That is different from a review and a debate on the report on the review.Baroness Hayman
672: My Lords, my noble friend has undoubtedly provided some assistance. The reason I hesitate slightly is because it seemed to me that he was conceding the significance of the orders and the need for a High Court judge to be involved in the orders—that is, all the orders, not just the derogating orders. That is a significant acceptance by our Front Bench about judicial involvement as a matter of principle rather than as a matter of necessity because of the votes of the House.672Baroness Hayman
651: My Lords, we on these Benches strongly support what the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, has said, and I will briefly add a few arguments. We indicated last night that, in our view, the link between the review and the sunset clause is absolutely crucial. First, a review without a sunset clause can easily be tossed aside and disregarded, as was that of the committee of the noble Lord, Lord Newton of Braintree, despite its excellence. Secondly, there is another profound reason, which the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, touched upon—that is, the issue of how seriously Parliament is to be taken. If the counter-terrorism Bill of 2001 was rushed through Parliament, this legislation is being stampeded through it, and there is no adequate consideration of the terms of the Bill.651Baroness Williams of Crosby
: My Lords, the noble Lord will know better than I, because he was involved in passing the Act, that the exemptions were carefully considered; not least in your Lordships' House and another place and consequently. We are clear and open about the reasons for those exemptions. It is true that as the Act comes into operation properly and we see what happens, we will look at how effectively it is working, but there are no plans at this time to review formally the exemptions.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am an eternal optimist and I have no difficulty in being optimistic about something as fundamental as the Freedom of Information Act, which is an enormous tribute to the Government. I hope that it will stand the country well. As people begin to understand better how government works we will create greater confidence in the working of government both locally and nationally and the 100,000 organisations covered by the Act.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
622: My Lords, there is a process within government—I am happy to write to the noble Lord to lay that out formally and to put a copy of the letter in the Library—which ensures that within each department the request is looked at to see whether it is covered by exemption or whether it should go forward. That covers papers of previous administrations. Noble Lords will know the process that is in place and the dialogue that continues between the different parties on that process. We are very clear about the responsibility to ensure that Ministers of
622Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I could not agree more with my noble friend. I pay tribute to his work in the area. It is important to ensure that people understand in detail what is required, not least because, as noble Lords would expect—particularly of the other organisations outside central government—this is also about local people obtaining information locally. It is important that requests do not come with a freedom of information badge on them; they simply come as requests for information.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, what can I say? We must recognise that the opportunity for our citizens to understand how government works, for good or ill, is very important. We should celebrate our Freedom of Information Act and the opportunity it gives for all of us—for we are all citizens—to understand better how government works arid to recognise—I say this to every current and every previous Minister—that it is tough as well.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
623: My Lords, the noble Lord found out that the relevant person was my noble friend Lord Warner, so clearly there is a spirit of
623Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the noble Lord will know that the 30-year rule does not exist in its previous form. We have made sure that in the work of the national archives and each department information which falls within the Act's framework and beyond its exemptions is made available. The noble Lord will recognise that I cannot comment on individual requests before departments at present; not least because for the 4,000 requests that we know of it would be a huge amount of information to obtain.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the Freedom of Information Act is working well. More and more information is being released and there is a move to greater openness across the public sector.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: My Lords, I simply make the point that, when we hear the noble Lord, Lord Judd, and a number of others, it sounds more and more as if we practice torture, and we do not. That should be made very clear because the public—including the public about whom the noble Lord, Lord Judd, is worried—would be entitled to think that they have to fear that from this country, and they do not.Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, can the Minister inform the House whether any study is being done by the Treasury on the amount of the profits of the clearing banks that is directly related to delays in payments of cheques? The delay of four or five working days from when money is deposited is a disgrace in view of the huge developments in transmission technology.Baroness O'Cathain
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure until we are ready for the Third Reading of the Prevention of Terrorism Bill. The precise time will be shown in advance on the Annunciator.Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, I too welcome this order. I also thank the Minister very much for circulating a revised version of the measure which was extremely helpful. I welcome in outline the quite dramatic step forward that this represents for the General Optical Council. It is clear that the range of measures which will be open to it will turn what has been a rather blunt instrument into a much more finely tuned one. In particular the fitness to practise reforms should be welcomed by practitioners and users.Baroness Barker
711"is intended to be widely drawn so that, as far as possible, water undertakers and licensed water suppliers will not suffer loss as a result of entering into an agreement to increase the fluoride content of water or to supply such water"."The requirement is that SHA must not take any such step unless, having regard to the extent of support for the proposal and the cogency of the arguments advanced, the SHA are satisfied that the health arguments in favour of proceeding outweigh all arguments against proceeding. Thus the SHA will be able to consider the cogency to be attached to any representations made and to look at the extent of support for the proposal"710: My Lords, I suspect that the Government Front Bench is delighted to move on to this subject towards the end of a long day's
711"is intended to be widely drawn so that, as far as possible, water undertakers and licensed water suppliers will not suffer loss as a result of entering into an agreement to increase the fluoride content of water or to supply such water"."The requirement is that SHA must not take any such step unless, having regard to the extent of support for the proposal and the cogency of the arguments advanced, the SHA are satisfied that the health arguments in favour of proceeding outweigh all arguments against proceeding. Thus the SHA will be able to consider the cogency to be attached to any representations made and to look at the extent of support for the proposal"710Baroness Barker
: My Lords, in view of the clearly embedded nature of this heinous crime and, indeed, the cost to the whole community as well as to individuals which the Minister has already outlined, will she expand on the role that the education services are expected to play?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
*: My Lords, I have listened carefully to what the noble Baroness has said. I am very sorry, but I do not find it particularly satisfactory. I should like to have matters much more cut and dried. I am getting a strong impression of, "Don't worry, it will be all right on the night". Under these circumstances, I should like to have something on the face of the Bill. I beg leave to seek the opinion of the House.*Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
After Clause I, insert the following new Clause—moved Amendment No. 7:
After Clause I, insert the following new Clause—Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: My Lords, is it in order for me to conclude?Baroness D'Souza
654"causing extensive damage to a government or public facility","attacks on the physical integrity of a person",ad hoc: My Lords, I agree with nearly all that has been said on the sunset clause. Nearly all the speakers in this debate have acknowledged the very serious dilemma that the Government have to resolve: how to deal with the threat of terrorism and, at the same time, preserve fundamental rights. We all recognise what a serious dilemma that is. However, the argument that this contradictory and flawed Bill, which addresses such serious issues, should have an end date surely has to be accepted.654"causing extensive damage to a government or public facility","attacks on the physical integrity of a person",ad hocBaroness D'Souza
: My Lords, I am grateful to my noble friend for that welcome information on International Women's Day. Does he agree that the expansion of high quality childcare places is not only essential for the health and well-being of our children but is also economically important in that it provides additional jobs for childcare workers—the majority of whom are women—and enables many mothers to work with peace of mind? Will he assure me that, in addition to providing the good training about which he spoke earlier, the Government will ensure that the expansion of Sure Start and other childcare initiatives will be underpinned by sound quality standards?Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
: My Lords, as a former—Baroness Trumpington
: My Lords, will the Minister tell the House whether there is any level of profit that the Government consider excessive in any business sector? If so, what is it and why?Baroness Seccombe
618: My Lords, in view of the specialised nature of the work with young children, will the Government establish a new qualification of qualified early years teacher as we on these Benches propose? Secondly, will he assure the House that all
618Baroness Walmsley
"If the security services or police are in possession of information suggesting that a person is involved in an imminent terrorist attack, there is already a power to arrest him on suspicion of involvement in an offence under the Terrorism Act 2000, and he can then be detained for up to 14 days without charge, during which time investigations can be carried out, evidence can be gathered and the person can be brought to court to determine whether a control order should be made pending the outcome of the criminal investigation".: My Lords, I too have put my name to this amendment, and wish to speak briefly to it. In doing so, I declare membership of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and add that I concur completely with the committee's report, which was produced in difficult circumstances in great haste last week."If the security services or police are in possession of information suggesting that a person is involved in an imminent terrorist attack, there is already a power to arrest him on suspicion of involvement in an offence under the Terrorism Act 2000, and he can then be detained for up to 14 days without charge, during which time investigations can be carried out, evidence can be gathered and the person can be brought to court to determine whether a control order should be made pending the outcome of the criminal investigation".Baroness Falkner of Margravine
What a Waste,: My Lords, is the Minister aware of the report which was published last week entitled, What a Waste,Baroness Prosser
: My Lords, I assure my noble friend that we have implemented a strategic approach to the way in which we work together. I hope to be able to publish the results of that work at the end of the month. I hope that my noble friend will be very pleased by it. I shall put a copy of the report in the Libraries of this House and the other place.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
625: My Lords, I am very pleased to do that. This very day we launched with the National Union of Teachers guidance to teachers on how they should respond to domestic violence,
625Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I emphasise what has just been said in relation to domestic violence. Children are often the silent witnesses of what happens in the home and they unfortunately get to know far more of what is going on than adults believe. We have emphasised in the guidance and in the work that we are doing with the Association of Chief Police Officers how important their welfare is. I am very proud to say that the new provisions which we have introduced enable better safety for our children to be more easily delivered.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, we have worked very closely indeed with Women's Aid and Refuge. Noble Lords will know that we launched a national helpline for domestic violence. That was done with those agencies. A very strong contribution was made by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, by my noble friends Lord Filkin and Lady Ashton and in particular by my noble friend Lord Rooker, who is the Minister responsible at the ODPM and who has worked very hard indeed on our ministerial committee to try to ensure that these provisions are in place.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
624: My Lords, as regards my noble friend's first point on costs, Professor Walby undertook research on behalf of the Department of Trade and Industry which indicated that the cost of domestic violence at the moment is about £23 billion a year. Some £3 billion is spent on public services; £1
624Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, a national plan is being developed that identifies victims earlier through routine inquiry in primary health and social care settings and provides support through a variety of agencies. The Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act includes measures such as making common assault an arrestable offence, criminalising the breach of a non-molestation order and extending the availability of restraining orders to all violent offences. This will enhance our ability to protect victims and should lead to increased arrests, prosecutions and convictions.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, that depends on the final construct of the nature of the judicial involvement. If the other place were to accept that there should be no difference between the derogating orders and the non-derogating orders, but that there should be a unity of procedure, then one can see the force of replicating the rules.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
632: My Lords, I know that the right reverend Prelate wants to get to his feet. Perhaps I may answer the comments of the noble Duke, the Duke of Montrose, about the Lord Advocate. Yesterday, the noble Duke will know, there was a debate on whether the appropriate person or entity identified should be the Lord Advocate or—as
632Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, we have two groups of amendments to deal with. Perhaps I may explain what the government amendments seek to do. As a result of the Committee's decision to introduce provisions for non-derogating orders which are similar to those for derogating orders, the Bill had certain technical defects. The government amendments seek to rectify those technical defects so that the Bill reads more easily.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, if I may respectfully say so, the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson, makes a powerful point. If I have not made it plain, I should do so by saying we do not believe that Amendment No. 12 simply repeats what happened yesterday. It goes further, in suggesting that the Director of Public Prosecutions will continue to keep the matter under review. The DPP has no duty to keep cases under review in the way suggested.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I accept and I hope that the House accepts that the Government are giving all these matters full consideration and will continue to do so. I am not in a position to say to my noble friend that the Government agree in relation to February or March, not least because we have come to the view that an arbitrary sunset clause would cause some difficulty because we do not know the precise timetable that would be necessary.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
662: My Lords, I hear what my noble friend says on that matter and I accept as she indicates that there is a difference between the two. But there is also an issue with which we should seriously grapple. We have spoken at length in the past couple of days about the possibility—nay, the necessity—of looking more keenly at provisions that could be brought forward in another Bill in relation to acts preparatory to terrorism. That is likely to take time. I do not want to repeat all the things I said yesterday, but your Lordships will recall that we went through the chronology.662Baroness Scotland of Asthal
661: My Lords, I will deal first with the comments of the noble Earl, Lord Ferrers, and my noble friend Lord Plant about the contracting out provisions, as I will refer to them. When those comments were first made by my noble friend Lord Plant, many in the House will have noticed the alarm and disbelief written large on my face. The whole basis of this Bill is that we are dealing with information of the highest possible sensitivity and it is of the utmost importance that information should be entrusted only to those who can be guaranteed not to relay—whether advertently or inadvertently—that information to those who might put this country and our citizens at risk. That remains the case.661Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, we spoke about this in part in the last group. We have already indicated that we think these proposals are covered by provisions in the Bill. Amendment No. 18 creates a committee of Privy Counsellors to review the operation of the Act and report on it after four months and eight months. It would provide that the reports carried out by the committee created under Amendment No. 18 would consider the operational effectiveness of the legislation.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
"( ) a requirement on him to allow himself to be photographed;"Page 2, line 35, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 6:
"( ) a requirement on him to allow himself to be photographed;"Page 2, line 35, at end insert—Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I can assure the noble Lord that the Government have thought it through. That is why we have made plain that the list is not exhaustive. We have said that there must be a degree of flexibility. If the orders are to be altered at the behest or instigation of the court, it is right that there should be an element of discretion.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, that point has been made; I shall start to count how many times it is made. On every amendment, I have accepted that we are where we are and that this matter had to be looked at very quickly. If I may respectfully suggest, repetition does not enhance the value of a comment.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
636: My Lords, I shall deal with the point made by the noble Lord, Lord Lester, last.636Baroness Scotland of Asthal
Page 1, line 12, at end insert 'under section 3" had given notice of her intention to move Amendment No. 3:
Page 1, line 12, at end insert 'under section 3"Baroness Scotland of Asthal
Clause 2, page 4, line 1, leave out subsection (2)moved Amendment No. 8:
Clause 2, page 4, line 1, leave out subsection (2)Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, this is a consequential amendment on new Clause 7 which covers criminal investigations after the making of a control order. It was intended to bring the Secretary of State's decision under the new criminal investigations clause within the rule in Clause 9(1) in order that such decisions cannot be questioned in any legal proceedings other than before the court or on appeal from such proceedings. I beg to move.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
Clause 11, page 14. line 8, leave out from "exercise" to end of line 10 and insert "or performance of any power or duty under any of sections of or in connection with the exercise or performance of any such power or duty;"moved Amendment No. 15:
Clause 11, page 14. line 8, leave out from "exercise" to end of line 10 and insert "or performance of any power or duty under any of sections of or in connection with the exercise or performance of any such power or duty;"Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, it is impossible to deal with a case-by-case situation, save to say that I am sure all those factors will be prayed in aid by those representing the individual. There will be a discussion about whether the conditions are necessary and proportionate. They are matters that the person who has to determine the nature of the conditions will take into account, whether it be in relation to the Government's position on non-derogating orders or in relation to a construct which requires that all such orders are to be made by the court.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
642: My Lords, I hope I can satisfy the noble Lady that her concerns are unfounded. I understand the support for the sentiment of both the noble Earl. Lord Onslow, and the noble Lord. Lord Northbourne.642Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.): My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill do now pass.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)Baroness Scotland of Asthal
"By March 2004, 400,000 children will have access to 524 Sure Start programmes".: My Lords, the Sure Start guidance states:
"By March 2004, 400,000 children will have access to 524 Sure Start programmes".Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that positive response. However, in view of the fact that incidents of domestic violence account for at least 16 per cent of all violent crime—and that is almost certainly an under-recording as we know that women victims will suffer up to 35 incidents of domestic violence before going to the police—what is the cost of this crime to society? What measures, taken in conjunction with the police and local community safety partnerships, such as, for example, the provision of dedicated women's centres, does the Minister consider would be most successful in encouraging women victims not just to come forward at an earlier stage but also to give them help, support and, most importantly, protection in what are often most difficult court proceedings?Baroness Henig
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Henig
: My Lords, it is the turn of the Liberal Democrats.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
"that the Secretary of State is not required … to disclose anything to … any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it",: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble and learned Lord for giving way. He has reassuringly described the practice that obtains at the moment. Like last night, I ask why cannot that be explained in the Bill, in place of sub-paragraph (3)(c), so that it is plain on the face of the Bill. The words,
"that the Secretary of State is not required … to disclose anything to … any other person, where he does not propose to rely on it",Lord Mayhew of Twysden
802"Turkey's performance, including in relation to respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights. will be closely monitored".801"the Select Committee will in particular seek an early opportunity to present the House with a ministerial overview of the Government's intentions for its Presidency".800: My Lords, I, too, congratulate the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, on the very wise and timely choice of topic for this debate. I also congratulate him on his good fortune in that the subject popped out of the hat for today's debate. With the likelihood that certain political events of high importance will occur during the run up to the presidency, I can only hope that the House will not be too distracted from the serious business of monitoring closely the Government's leadership of Europe from July to December.802"Turkey's performance, including in relation to respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights. will be closely monitored".801"the Select Committee will in particular seek an early opportunity to present the House with a ministerial overview of the Government's intentions for its Presidency".800Lord Grenfell
749"he was found to have been stripped, and clothed in a soiled prison garment that exposed his genitalia and buttocks".748: My Lords, the persistence of the noble Baroness, Lady Park, in seeking this short debate today is greatly appreciated. It gives some of us an opportunity to raise issues of grave concern about continuing developments in Zimbabwe. Although I freely admit that we in this House follow developments in that country, there are few of us as well informed as is the noble Baroness about the horrendously repulsive regime under which far too many of its people have to exist. We heard about that today in the speech made by the noble Baroness, which I shall be pleased to read tomorrow, and which we now have on the record of this House.749"he was found to have been stripped, and clothed in a soiled prison garment that exposed his genitalia and buttocks".748Baroness Boothroyd
772: My Lords, I appreciate that we are working through the European Union and perhaps other organisations, but what are we doing? Have we talked to the High Commissioner? We have had silence through South Africa. Are we making our voice felt
772Baroness Boothroyd
"Those who deny freedom to others, deserve it not for themselves; and, under a just God, cannot long retain it".798797: My Lords, I would like to join in congratulating my noble friend Lord Dykes on securing this debate. I have known him since Cambridge. His record as a consistent, comprehensive and enthusiastic advocate—indeed, champion—of European union is exemplary. At Cambridge I left the Conservative Party and joined the Liberals. It has taken him four decades to achieve the same decision, but we on these Benches congratulate him on that."Those who deny freedom to others, deserve it not for themselves; and, under a just God, cannot long retain it".798797Lord Watson of Richmond
: My Lords, does that research also cover any effects that may exist for those who work with sheep wool and sheep skins? I understand that the chemical does not get into the meat—which relieves me, because I eat a lot of sheep meat—but if there is a risk, it could well arise from those sources.Lord Christopher
: My Lords, what are we doing about the shortage of PET scanners?Lord Campbell-Savours
acquis communautaire796"A rose by any other name would smell as sweet".795: My Lords, shall I rise to the bait? I think my noble friends would be disappointed if I did not say, "Yes".acquis communautaire796"A rose by any other name would smell as sweet".795Lord Lea of Crondall
: My Lords, with her critique of the European social model, could the noble Baroness remind the House whether it is the euro area that has devalued by 20 per cent in the last year, or the dollar?Lord Lea of Crondall
794"Europe remains a nation—uh, uh—a union of nation states"."Europe remains a union of nation states"."Europe remains a nation".793"the constitutional treaty enshrines the transformation of Europe from a single market to a political union"."We are witnessing the last remnants of national politics. We must now give up sovereignty in the dual areas of foreign affairs and defence"."the constitution is, in spite of all justified calls for further regulations, a milestone. Yes it is more than that. The EU constitution is the birth certificate of the United States of Europe"."in the early 1990s, now the constitution was delivering a political Europe which would need to be further thrashed out in the years ahead".792"the Maastricht treaty with its social laws and single currency had delivered a socio-economic Europe"—: My Lords, I, too, am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, for calling attention to the United Kingdom presidency of the Council of the European Union.794"Europe remains a nation—uh, uh—a union of nation states"."Europe remains a union of nation states"."Europe remains a nation".793"the constitutional treaty enshrines the transformation of Europe from a single market to a political union"."We are witnessing the last remnants of national politics. We must now give up sovereignty in the dual areas of foreign affairs and defence"."the constitution is, in spite of all justified calls for further regulations, a milestone. Yes it is more than that. The EU constitution is the birth certificate of the United States of Europe"."in the early 1990s, now the constitution was delivering a political Europe which would need to be further thrashed out in the years ahead".792"the Maastricht treaty with its social laws and single currency had delivered a socio-economic Europe"—Lord Stevens of Ludgate
: I am here, my Lords.Lord Stevens of Ludgate
736"aggressively against another country or to assert by force a territorial claim".: My Lords, I can assure the House that the Government recognise the importance of stability on both sides of the Taiwan Strait and of regional stability in general. The code of conduct is, and will remain, the primary means of controlling arms sales in that and other regions. In December 2004, the European Council's conclusions underlined the importance of the code's criteria on regional stability and the security of allied and friendly countries. It may be helpful to draw one element of the code to the attention of the House—that is, weapons should not be exported if they would be used,
736"aggressively against another country or to assert by force a territorial claim".Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the resistance of the United States Government and many US companies to exchanging information is a long-standing issue. It goes back a considerable way—before these recent changes in the possibility of trading with China. Some people on both sides of Congress have observed that such resistance may be more to do with the protection of United States industries over that period than with other matters. We are fully seized of the concerns expressed in the United States, but we believe that the proposed arrangements will be an effective means of controlling both the quality and quantity of exports to the PRC. Close defence cooperation between the United Kingdom and the United States is plainly beneficial and vital to both countries, and I am sure that we would do nothing to undermine that in the long term.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, as I think I indicated in my previous answer, I confirm that these matters may not be entirely due to changes in arrangements in Europe. Incidentally, I should add that recent legislative change in the United States has also speeded up the system of export licensing and authorisations, and so our dealings with the United States of America have not been all adverse, one-way traffic. I do not have here at the Dispatch Box figures on Israeli exports to China. However, from what I have read second-hand, I believe that both Israel and the United States exceed us in the volume of such exports.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the Government believe it is absolutely vital to get stability on either side of the strait. Our view is that the Taiwan question should be settled peacefully through negotiation between the peoples on both sides of the strait. We are actively encouraging both sides to take that course of action rather than any other, and certainly rather than anything that would inflame the situation. It is the case that a large number of people from Taiwan—more than 1 million, I believe—live in China, and I think that a high proportion of inward investment into Taiwan is by China. Everyone there has every interest in a normal, peaceful and stable relationship. We will encourage that.Lord Triesman
814813812811810809: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, for introducing the debate, and all other noble Lords who have taken part tonight. Almost all of them have very distinguished records in their roles in Europe and many, like the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, have had major honours awarded in Europe. I am also grateful for the occasional Chinese proverb to set me on my way in the course of an evening.814813812811810809Lord Triesman
[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [12th Report from the Merits Committee].—(Lord Triesman.)826825824[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [12th Report from the Merits Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 9 February be approved [9th Report from the Joint Committee] [12th Report from the Merits Committee].—(Lord Triesman.)826825824[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [12th Report from the Merits Committee].Lord Triesman
"Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (`the Authority')".831: My Lords, I thank both noble Lords for their contributions. I should pay tribute to the work that both undertook during the passage of the Energy Bill. This evening feels like a reunion."Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (`the Authority')".831Lord Triesman
833832: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Dixon-Smith, is quite right. The Explanatory Memorandum is not part of the order. The two Acts I referred to provide the definition. With so many other words in the order perhaps it would not have suffered greatly if it had had those words repeated as well. The Explanatory Memorandum refers to how it is used in the order, and its provenance is the legislative elements that I mentioned.833832Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the point is very well made and I take it very positively. We do not yet know how the developments that have started relatively recently will mature, but they will mature against a background with some very large changes. I wholly accept that point. All I would say is that the administration of the RO and consultation on it is in the review that is due to be issued shortly. I think that we will have the opportunity to reconsider in some detail all of those matters.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I refer the House to the evidence that my right honourable friend the Foreign Secretary gave to the Committee on Strategic Export Controls in another place on 12 January. The United States has a legitimate and understandable interest both in the effectiveness of the EU's system of arms control and in the stability of the East Asian region. Whatever the final decision from the EU review, we need to do our best to reassure the United States on the effectiveness of the EU code of conduct, which will remain the key to controlling EU arms exports to China.Lord Triesman
762: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Park of Monmouth, has always been a staunch friend of Zimbabwe. She has worked extremely hard in recent months to ensure that the ordeal of the people remains firmly on our agenda. I know that many thousands of Zimbabweans would be extremely grateful to her for highlighting their desperate situation once again today. There is less than three weeks to go before an election which is universally acknowledged as already having been rigged to ensure that the aged despot will have another five years to complete the ruin of the country and the destitution of his people.
762Lord Avebury
"democracy, democratic processes and institutions … the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, and just and honest government".765"there has been no detectable abatement of political violence against the opposition, particularly the MDC. Instances of violence have continued to occur and … members real or perceived of the MDC … continue to be the target of human rights violations … The same applies to other persons who, because of their background, might be considered to be critical of the current regime".764763Weekly Times: My Lords, I shall come on to that. As the noble Lord, Lord Skidelsky, may be aware, in the collapse of the Zimbabwean economy, which has been described by several noble Lords, a vacuum has been left in which the Chinese are intervening in a big way. They have economic interests in preserving the Mugabe regime, which would certainly compel them to take such a stand in the Security Council. The Russians, of course, are vehemently opposed to the idea of international interventions along the lines that the noble Lord suggested, where it is primarily to prevent an overwhelming humanitarian catastrophe. That is not yet, unfortunately, part of customary international law."democracy, democratic processes and institutions … the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, and just and honest government".765"there has been no detectable abatement of political violence against the opposition, particularly the MDC. Instances of violence have continued to occur and … members real or perceived of the MDC … continue to be the target of human rights violations … The same applies to other persons who, because of their background, might be considered to be critical of the current regime".764763Weekly TimesLord Avebury
: My Lords, will the Minister respond to the point I made earlier? One hundred and thirty eight cases have been documented by the Zimbabwe Association of asylum seekers who the association says were wrongly refused asylum because they had bad representation. Will the Minister consider the suggestion that I made that at least in those cases submitted by the Zimbabwe Association of people whose membership of the MDC is vouched by documentary evidence, they will get another chance to appear before an adjudicator?Lord Avebury
: My Lords, how many Ministers in Her Majesty's Government still smoke?Lord Mackie of Benshie
779vis-À-vis778777"stimulate the closer and deeper involvement of all parliamentarians as well as the British public in European Union affairs"."through full implementation of existing liberalisation measures, as well as new initiatives".776entente cordiale775rose to call attention to the forthcoming United Kingdom presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 July 2005; and to move for Papers.779vis-À-vis778777"stimulate the closer and deeper involvement of all parliamentarians as well as the British public in European Union affairs"."through full implementation of existing liberalisation measures, as well as new initiatives".776entente cordiale775Lord Dykes
: My Lords, while sympathising with the bizarre and peculiar isolation of the noble Baroness, Lady Rawlings, and the noble Lord, Lord Stephens, in their arguments—although the noble Baroness tried to be broader in her approach—the other contributions have been first-class and I, as the initiator of this debate, am particularly grateful for that and for the replies given by the noble Lord, Lord Triesman. Even when he is reading many points from a ministerial brief, he gives me the impression of being an enthusiastic European and I hope that I do not cause him any embarrassment in his distinguished career by saying that. As a result of this multi-faceted debate, which has covered so many points, I beg leave to withdraw the Motion for Papers.Lord Dykes
(Lord Rooker.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [11th Report from the Merits Committee].816[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [11th Report from the Merits Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 9 February be approved (Lord Rooker.)[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [11th Report from the Merits Committee].816[9th Report from the Joint Committee] [11th Report from the Merits Committee].The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
818: My Lords, I shall pursue that point. Frankly, as I know from my discussions in the department, these days there is more pressure on the statutory authorities to co-operate and to realise that they are part of government in the widest sense. They are not a law unto themselves and they are expected to co-operate in partnership with local authorities and the other bodies because there are statutory
818Lord Rooker
[10th Report from the Joint Committee].[10th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 23 February be approved [10th Report from the Joint Committee].[10th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Rooker
823: My Lords, I am again grateful to the two noble Baronesses for their comments. I agree about the function of external audit. We are dealing with vast amounts of public money, if one considers local government and the NHS, and the public has every right to be interested and involved and to have the reports and information available in a readily understandable way, in the same way as Parliament does with the National Audit Office. The noble Baroness is quite right: the vast majority of work is the unsung, daily grind of the audit that is crucial. The value-for-money reports and inspections at local government level are somewhat different and probably get a higher profile. Nevertheless, the big exercise of work is day-to-day.823Lord Rooker
(Lord Rooker.): My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Lord Rooker.)Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I am grateful for the responses of the two noble Baronesses. On the issue of mobile phone masts, I can only say that at present we do not have enough information to justify a larger increase. We would have to subject this area to further evidence-gathering and research. But I fully take on board the point that an application for a mast—that is, for those that require planning permission; not all do, which in some ways is part of the argument—can be very costly to small local authorities.Lord Rooker
(Lord Rooker.)820rose to move, That the draft Code of Audit Practice laid before the House on 27 January be approved.(Lord Rooker.)820Lord Rooker
768"I don't see Zimbabwe as an illustration of bad governance. I don't buy it"."There is no reason to believe that there is anyone who would want to infringe on the rights of the Zimbabwean people to express their will fully at these elections".767The Zimbabwean,"There has been no detectable abatement of political violence against the opposition, particularly the MDC. Indeed, it would seem that instances of violence have continued to occur and that members and supporters—real or perceived — of the MDC or any other opposition party reportedly continue to be the target of human rights violations, including ill-treatment, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention. The same applies to other persons who, because of their background, might otherwise be considered to be critical of the current regime".766"I don't believe it is internal. I think what we are seeing now is a crisis which is spreading beyond the borders of Zimbabwe. Refugees are pouring into Botswana, in the north part of South Africa, and the humanitarian crisis is not one that is going to be specifically restricted to Zimbabwe".: My Lords, once again I congratulate my noble friend Lady Park on returning to this vital issue. The noble Lord, Lord Avebury, and my noble friend Lord Caithness were quite right to say that she is a true friend of Zimbabwe.768"I don't see Zimbabwe as an illustration of bad governance. I don't buy it"."There is no reason to believe that there is anyone who would want to infringe on the rights of the Zimbabwean people to express their will fully at these elections".767The Zimbabwean,"There has been no detectable abatement of political violence against the opposition, particularly the MDC. Indeed, it would seem that instances of violence have continued to occur and that members and supporters—real or perceived — of the MDC or any other opposition party reportedly continue to be the target of human rights violations, including ill-treatment, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention. The same applies to other persons who, because of their background, might otherwise be considered to be critical of the current regime".766"I don't believe it is internal. I think what we are seeing now is a crisis which is spreading beyond the borders of Zimbabwe. Refugees are pouring into Botswana, in the north part of South Africa, and the humanitarian crisis is not one that is going to be specifically restricted to Zimbabwe".Lord Astor of Hever
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there used to be a great amount of dud science washing about the corridors of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food? That seems to have been inherited by his present department. Will he be sensible and try to teach his department that when the noble Countess comes forward on this subject, she is much more often right than are any government advisers?Lord Peyton of Yeovil
789acquis communautaire788787: My Lords, I too would like to express my gratitude to the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, for his initiative in giving us this opportunity to debate the forthcoming British presidency this afternoon.
789acquis communautaire788787Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, I will be very quick. The noble Baroness refers to the successful presidency under John Major. Was that not the Edinburgh summit, when the British Government conceded that not only should the European Parliament meet in Brussels, but Strasbourg should also be kept going, which is one of the biggest waste factors we have seen?Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there is ample neurological evidence to indicate that acute organophosphate intoxication can have serious, damaging effects on the nervous system, particularly the peripheral nervous system? Is he satisfied that the current health and safety regulations are sufficiently stringent to protect farmers from such events?Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, every few weeks statistics accumulate, clearly demonstrating not only the effect of smoking on human health of those who smoke cigarettes or pipes but the effect of passive smoking on others who are exposed to second-hand smoke. In the light of recent evidence and the Government's own White Paper, when will the Government complete the consultation process and introduce legislation to restrict smoking in public places?Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, the current requirements, both in terms of the container and the advice on usage are very strict indeed. That has not always been the case in the past.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I am glad to hear that my noble friend eats a lot of sheep meat and I trust that it is good English, Welsh or Scottish lamb. The specific effects of organophosphates through wool or hide may not have been addressed directly, but the issue has been covered in some of the earlier research. The key question is the level of exposure, which would have to be measured according to the level of usage against the clinical symptoms. As far as I am aware—and I will write to the noble Lord if there is any different information—the incidence from handling sheep wool or hide has not been established.Lord Whitty
735: No, my Lords, because the Answer was related to the research, rather than to the opinions of the all-party group. We have received a report
735Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I think that the noble Countess would accept that I normally take her comments in these debates very seriously indeed. The Question related to whether there was particular scientific evidence of one of the long-term effects of organophosphates and I hope that I was accurately reporting that the studies the Government have commissioned have not yet revealed such an effect—but those studies are not yet complete. I was simply giving a factual report and not querying the credentials of the noble Countess.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, I hope that my reply did not indicate that organophosphates are safe in whichever manner they are used. The requirements on use, including the closed system for sheep dips, are to prevent exposure to acute doses of organophosphates. It has been established that acute doses cause extremely severe reactions and, indeed, that continued exposure can cause reactions.Lord Whitty
733: My Lords, the Government have engaged in a substantial amount of research on organophosphates. Some of their effects are well established, but some studies on the long-term effects remain to be completed and the results of all the studies will need to be reviewed on their completion. I am advised that, to date, none of the completed studies has provided conclusive evidence to support the hypothesis that exposure to organophosphates is the cause of long-term ill health reported by some sheep farmers.
733The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Lord Whitty)
: No, my Lords, this has nothing to do with compensation claims. It is clearly established that if you spill organophosphates in a substantial way while you are engaged in sheep dipping, or possibly in other contexts, there will be serious medical effects. The issue is whether, if you stop using and being exposed to OPs, the conditions continue, or whether they work their way through the system. The research is addressing that area, where there is some doubt, but it suggests that, so far, there is not a long-term effect of that nature. But the research has yet to be completed.Lord Whitty
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Trumpington, raises a very interesting point. Clearly it is open to restaurateurs to decide to pickle themselves and open to clients of that restaurant to decide not to go there. But what about the staff of such restaurants? What protection does my noble friend believe that they should be offered in such circumstances?Lord Harris of Haringey
: My Lords, would the Minister care to indicate whether the Government have any plans to ban the use of incense in places of public worship?The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
752751750Herald"help the military deal with any crisis following the elections in March",: My Lords, I am grateful that my noble friend Lady Park won this balloted debate. She is without doubt a true friend of Zimbabwe. This is not the first debate that she has initiated, and I hope that it will not be the last. Somebody has to keep Zimbabwe on the agenda when the Government do not.752751750Herald"help the military deal with any crisis following the elections in March",The Earl of Caithness
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that people who suffer from stress should be allowed to choose to smoke to reduce it?The Earl of Erroll
: My Lords, what have the Government learned from other countries about tackling health inequalities, and particularly about helping those who are vulnerable, such as pregnant mothers and people from black and minority ethnic groups, to stop smoking?Lord Chan
: My Lords, given that cancer patients are among those subject to operations being cancelled at short notice, and given the Government's highly publicised reaction to the cancellations of Mrs Dixon's operations, will the Minister undertake to write to all Members of Parliament asking them how many constituency cases like that of Mrs Dixon they have, and to publish the results?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, can the Minister confirm that in the three areas discussed in the Question, there was extensive consultation with affected parties before any restrictions were introduced? Can he confirm that that is also the position of Her Majesty's Government?Lord Naseby
: My Lords, does the noble Lord remember the case of "Jennifer's ear"? Furthermore, does he recollect what the late Iain Macleod said of the late Harold Wilson—that, like a sundial, he only counts the sunny hours?Lord Tebbit
: My Lords, I am often congratulated on my unbridled optimism in this world.Lord Warner
: My Lords, therapy radiographer numbers have increased by 18 per cent between 1997 and 2003, which is significant. University training places for therapy radiographers have doubled—an increase of 108 per cent since 1997. Those increases mean that we are now starting to see more staff coming into service. In order to receive the money to purchase the new linear accelerators that I mentioned, trusts have to demonstrate that they have the staff to operate them.Lord Warner
: My Lords, we do not pursue a policy of using human shields to deflect public attention from our absence of any credible policies on healthcare.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I have already answered the question on that issue and explained where we are changing policy during 2005.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I think that we have made our policy on smoking very clear over a long period.Lord Warner
730: My Lords, for breast cancer, more than 97 per cent of women receive treatment within one month from diagnosis to first treatment and two months from urgent referral to first treatment. From the end of 2005, there will be a maximum two-month wait from urgent referral to treatment and a maximum one-month wait from diagnosis to first treatment for all cancers. As a result of improved performance,
730Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Government have introduced a major programme of investment in diagnostic equipment, which is continuing. We have delivered, through central programmes, 86 new MRI scanners, 180 CT scanners and more than 730 items of breast-screening equipment. The Secretary of State recently announced that NHS patients would get speedier access to high-quality diagnostic tests in future, thanks to a £1 billion procurement programme.Lord Warner
SunBMJ"As a result of the National Cancer Plan, substantial new investment in radiotherapy equipment has helped to improve the poor technology base for radiotherapy, which was previously a major problem".: My Lords, let us have a few detached facts. I think that the noble Baroness referred to the report by the Royal College of Radiologists. It also said:
SunBMJ"As a result of the National Cancer Plan, substantial new investment in radiotherapy equipment has helped to improve the poor technology base for radiotherapy, which was previously a major problem".Lord Warner
: My Lords, we have to remember that the increased waiting times for radiotherapy are a direct knock-on effect of the progress made in other areas. That is the professional view given to me. Due to the ageing population and better screening, the number of people diagnosed with cancer early enough to benefit from treatment continues to increase. We have one of the best international records in recent years in preventing premature deaths from cancer.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I am sure we all hope that my noble friend's brother-in-law recovers as speedily as possible.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I am sure that the whole House will be pleased that my noble friend's friend is receiving the good treatment that we have come to expect from the NHS under this Government. But I cannot engage in the party opposite's policy of using individual cases to disguise its own absence of policy.Lord Warner
: My Lords, we consulted extensively in this area and shall continue to do so.Lord Warner
: My Lords, all employers are required to take account of the needs of their staff and we have the Health and Safety Executive to ensure that they do so.Lord Warner
Choosing Health: My Lords, today we published our delivery plan for the Choosing HealthLord Warner
: My Lords, I hope that the noble Baroness set a very good example to her lunching companions in the way she conducted herself.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I do not have the details of all the exchanges that took place in the contacts, consultations and meetings. I shall look into the matter and, if I can shed any light for the noble Baroness, write to her.Lord Warner
Choosing Health: My Lords, as I said earlier, we watch the experience of other countries, and we have drawn on that experience in the Choosing HealthLord Warner
Choosing Health: My Lords, I thank my noble friend and can confirm that we are a learning government who continue to learn from others, with possibly one or two exceptions, in the area of health policy.Choosing HealthLord Warner
: No, my Lords, but if the right reverend Prelate wants us to work on that, I am sure that we could.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I believe that data protection legislation prevents me being able to reveal that.Lord Warner
Choosing Health: My Lords, I begin by congratulating the organisers of today's No Smoking Day, which on past evidence will mean that more than 1 million smokers will try to quit.Choosing HealthThe Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
747746"Business as usual is no longer an option; if political stability is not returned to Zimbabwe soon and the refugee population doesn't go home, then all AIDS efforts in the region may become worthless"."it's a deal: on the African side: true democracy, no more excuses for dictatorship, abuses of human rights; no tolerance of bad governance, from the endemic corruption of some states to the activities of Mr Mugabe's henchmen in Zimbabwe".: My Lords, I want to congratulate my noble friend Lady Park on having secured the debate and on a brilliant and extremely well informed speech. It was an excellent opening to our debate.747746"Business as usual is no longer an option; if political stability is not returned to Zimbabwe soon and the refugee population doesn't go home, then all AIDS efforts in the region may become worthless"."it's a deal: on the African side: true democracy, no more excuses for dictatorship, abuses of human rights; no tolerance of bad governance, from the endemic corruption of some states to the activities of Mr Mugabe's henchmen in Zimbabwe".Lord Blaker
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that Answer, in particular for its understanding of the need to satisfy the United States, which feels very strongly about these issues, that any change in the arms embargo policy needs to be maintained. Does he agree that it is critical to the stability of the region that the status quo is maintained on both sides of the Taiwan Strait and that there should be no loose talk of independence on the part of Taiwan? Does he also agree that, equally, no inflammatory legislation should be introduced by China which seeks to justify an invasion?Lord Faulkner of Worcester
786785: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, for initiating a debate on this important subject. As he and other noble Lords have said, there is a whole range of subjects that we could consider under this heading. I am especially anxious that the UK should use its presidency to enthuse and motivate others with its commitment to development.786785The Lord Bishop of Oxford
734: My Lords, given the Minister's response, he seems to agree that many sheep farmers are affected in the medium term by using organophosphates. Many of us know of serious longterm effects. My own health was adversely affected by one single usage of OP sheep dip from a container that was not properly labelled. If recognition of Gulf War syndrome has been given to those subjected to OP,
734Lord Livsey of Talgarth
737: My Lords, does the Minister agree that there is a very dangerous situation in the Taiwan Strait at present, which was not helped by the joint declaration by the United States and Japan recently? This is yet another example of the same problem. I declare an interest. I have seen the wording of the law
737Lord Marsh
: My Lords, I am sorry. I do take what the Minister has said but that is part of the Explanatory Memorandum. I am not sure how far the Explanatory Memorandum is part of the order.Lord Dixon-Smith
"However, the inclusion of these sites has increased the cost to electricity consumers, but has benefited the Exchequer in equal measure. The size of this transfer is likely to be in the range £550 million to £1 billion over the period to 2010. The additional payments made by consumers are held in a fund administered by Ofgem"."In 2001, the Department decided to include live Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation sites in the Renewables Obligation. This more than doubled the supply of Renewables Obligation Certificates … and thus significantly aided the introduction of the Renewables Obligation".828827: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his explanation. As he said, it is a massive paper, and with the explanatory notes and the regulatory impact assessment attached to the back, it makes an impressive document."However, the inclusion of these sites has increased the cost to electricity consumers, but has benefited the Exchequer in equal measure. The size of this transfer is likely to be in the range £550 million to £1 billion over the period to 2010. The additional payments made by consumers are held in a fund administered by Ofgem"."In 2001, the Department decided to include live Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation sites in the Renewables Obligation. This more than doubled the supply of Renewables Obligation Certificates … and thus significantly aided the introduction of the Renewables Obligation".828827Lord Dixon-Smith
745744agents provocateurs743: My Lords, I say immediately that we owe a great debt of gratitude to the noble Baroness, Lady Park of Monmouth, for once again allowing us to debate the situation in Zimbabwe and for putting her views so clearly and succinctly. I agreed with much of what she said and, as I develop my argument, she will find that I am certainly no defender of the Mugabe regime.745744agents provocateurs743Lord Hughes of Woodside
784coup d'état a month ago.783: My Lords, I begin by welcoming the initiative and the good fortune of my noble friend Lord Dykes in securing this debate on the forthcoming United Kingdom presidency of the European Union. I also warmly embrace the sentiments expressed by the noble Baroness, Lady Royall of Blaisdon, in a very powerful and sensible conspectus of the issues we face.784coup d'état a month ago.783Lord Maclennan of Rogart
761"some portion of those responsibilities should be taken up by the international community, acting in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights"."clearly carries with it the obligation of a State to protect the welfare of its own peoples"."Any event or process that leads to large-scale death or lessening of life chances … is a threat to international security"."the duty to protect the innocent"."crafting special benchmarks and timelines for a free and fair electoral process"."Regrettably, other African states introduced motions to block discussion"."We were able to take action in respect of Iraq because of its defiance of mandatory UN Security Council resolutions. There has been no Security Council resolution in respect of Zimbabwe".760"The economic decline has been caused largely by years of government corruption and mismanagement, but this has been compounded by the disruption to the crucial agricultural sector, where the Government has sanctioned invasion of commercial farms by its supporters, precipitating collapse in investor confidence and capital flight"."shrinking at a world record speed"."beatings, arrests, bribery, fraud and intimidation"."destruction of a once fine working justice system"."systematic violence and … draconian restrictions on freedom of speech, movement, association and assembling".Official Report,"The Government of Zimbabwe … has repeatedly harassed and intimidated and attacked the opposition, independent media and wider civil society".—[Official Report,"violence, used in both targeted and indiscriminate ways".759"The repression continues unabated. A couple of weeks ago the Government chucked out the remaining international reporters and closed down another newspaper. Food aid continues to be
759: My Lords, I join other noble Lords in thanking the noble Baroness, Lady Park, for introducing this debate on Zimbabwe, as she introduced the previous debate a year ago. Since then, the already dire situation there has not improved; it has deteriorated even by international standards. Here I have to dissent from the noble Lord, Lord Hughes of Woodside: Zimbabwe is experiencing a first-class disaster.761"some portion of those responsibilities should be taken up by the international community, acting in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights"."clearly carries with it the obligation of a State to protect the welfare of its own peoples"."Any event or process that leads to large-scale death or lessening of life chances … is a threat to international security"."the duty to protect the innocent"."crafting special benchmarks and timelines for a free and fair electoral process"."Regrettably, other African states introduced motions to block discussion"."We were able to take action in respect of Iraq because of its defiance of mandatory UN Security Council resolutions. There has been no Security Council resolution in respect of Zimbabwe".760"The economic decline has been caused largely by years of government corruption and mismanagement, but this has been compounded by the disruption to the crucial agricultural sector, where the Government has sanctioned invasion of commercial farms by its supporters, precipitating collapse in investor confidence and capital flight"."shrinking at a world record speed"."beatings, arrests, bribery, fraud and intimidation"."destruction of a once fine working justice system"."systematic violence and … draconian restrictions on freedom of speech, movement, association and assembling".Official Report,"The Government of Zimbabwe … has repeatedly harassed and intimidated and attacked the opposition, independent media and wider civil society".—[Official Report,"violence, used in both targeted and indiscriminate ways".759"The repression continues unabated. A couple of weeks ago the Government chucked out the remaining international reporters and closed down another newspaper. Food aid continues to be
759Lord Skidelsky
: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Avebury, for giving way. He says that a resolution would be vetoed by China and Russia. What evidence does he have for that?Lord Skidelsky
732: My Lords, may I invite my noble friend to have a pint with my ex-RAF friend, Bernard Donovan, who was suffering from chest
732Lord Corbett of Castle Vale
790: My Lords, we have been much entertained by the speech of the noble Lord, Lord Tomlinson. Of course, I agree with him very much on his final remarks and will come back to that. I am peculiarly and particularly pleased to speak in a debate introduced by my noble friend Lord Dykes. Aeons ago, even before sunset, I was, for about a decade, the Liberal Party spokesman on Europe in the other place. We had endless debates—I remember Maastricht, that merry occasion—and I made endless speeches. Usually, facing me, smiling beatifically, was the face of the good Lord Dykes who, at that time, was misplaced within the Conservative Party. He has now seen the light—the sunrise—and he is clearly a happier person. It was awfully interesting when I used to make pro-European comments, which I did frequently, and he would smile or nod. Immediately the people all round him would glare blackly at him. I felt that he was almost certainly due for a row from the Whips when the debate was over.790Lord Russell-Johnston
791: Fear not, my friend.791Lord Russell-Johnston
Cancer care in the NHS,: My Lords, does the noble Lord agree that it is difficult to reconcile his optimistic answers with the findings of the report, Cancer care in the NHS,Lord Laming
: My Lords, can the noble Lord confirm that it does not require the excuse of lifting an arms embargo to China for Congressman Hunter and others to be entirely opposed to allowing access to American technologies? Can he also confirm that the level of American and Israeli exports of arms to China over the past two to three years has been much higher than that from all the European states put together and that certainly Israeli exports to China have included some very sensitive technologies without, so far as I am aware, the US Administration objecting?Lord Wallace of Saltaire
805804803Sunday Telegraph,: My Lords, this has been in many ways a very odd debate. I miss the strength of the Euro-sceptics, who are so often a major part of what we have here. I am therefore extremely grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Stevens, for his particular contribution. The sense in which we have a deep suspicion of everything that foreigners "do to Britain" is a very important part of the British debate. It has been rather underplayed today. In a week in which the noble Lord, Lord Pearson, has informed me that Christopher Booker wrote a very complimentary piece about me in the 805804803Sunday Telegraph,Lord Wallace of Saltaire
758"The state operates in a sinister way, not with any open or direct threats, but it certainly gives those who are proclaiming truth and justice cause to pause. We have to think before we make any statements because we know that the state, at the appropriate point, will take further action"."an angry, evil and embittered little bishop".757"There is continuing starvation in certain parts in the country and food is being used as a political tool in certain areas"."want to control the food and politicise it, they'd rather kill people for the sake of power"."We are not hungry. Why foist this food on us? We don't want to be choked. We have enough".756"it is putting the church in a situation where it will be incapacitated. I think it's the beginning of the persecution of the church. We're heading for tough times"."one of the worst attacks on the independence of the church".755: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Baroness, Lady Park, for securing this timely debate
758"The state operates in a sinister way, not with any open or direct threats, but it certainly gives those who are proclaiming truth and justice cause to pause. We have to think before we make any statements because we know that the state, at the appropriate point, will take further action"."an angry, evil and embittered little bishop".757"There is continuing starvation in certain parts in the country and food is being used as a political tool in certain areas"."want to control the food and politicise it, they'd rather kill people for the sake of power"."We are not hungry. Why foist this food on us? We don't want to be choked. We have enough".756"it is putting the church in a situation where it will be incapacitated. I think it's the beginning of the persecution of the church. We're heading for tough times"."one of the worst attacks on the independence of the church".755Baroness Cox
: My Lords, through its monitoring processes in Zimbabwe, DfID makes sure—so far as it is possible to make sure—that the food goes to the people for whom it is intended and is not dispersed among Mugabe's acolytes. I shall reply in more detail to the noble Baroness in writing. The food aid goes particularly to the chronically ill, and includes seeds and fertilisers.Baroness Crawley
773: My Lords, we continue to raise the matter of the abuse that Mugabe entertains on his own country at all levels—not only though our international partners, but of course bilaterally through our people in Harare. We call in the ambassador. I shall come to that in a moment., and specifically to the noble Baroness's question on Roy Bennett. I believe that my honourable friend Chris Mullin called the ambassador in on 22 February to discuss abuses in Zimbabwe. We put pressure on bilaterally as well as through our international partners.773Baroness Crawley
[Official Report,"our policy on returns of failed Zimbabwean asylum seekers into line with that of every other country".—[Official Report,770769: My Lords, we have had an excellent debate, which has been learned, reflective and at times passionate. I join all noble Lords who have congratulated the noble Baroness, Lady Park of Monmouth, on having introduced this important debate and on her commitment to helping the people of Zimbabwe. The timing of the debate, coming only three weeks before parliamentary elections, is important. These are difficult times for the people of Zimbabwe, as many noble Lords have so eloquently described. They have been ill served by a regime determined to hold on to power and unconcerned with the suffering that its policies cause.[Official Report,"our policy on returns of failed Zimbabwean asylum seekers into line with that of every other country".—[Official Report,770769Baroness Crawley
771: My Lords, what I can say to noble Lords is that if they have any evidence that those people who have been returned have been abused in any way, we would be very happy to look at that evidence, if noble Lords present it to us.771Baroness Crawley
: My Lords, we know that DfID is pursuing a generous and well targeted programme of food aid, but who controls it? Does DfID control it on the ground, or is it handed over to the government? That is the point at issue for people on the ground. It is perfectly wasted if we give food and it is used by Mugabe.Baroness Park of Monmouth
774: My Lords, if I thanked everyone individually, I should have to make another speech and that, I am afraid, is not allowed. So I shall
774Baroness Park of Monmouth
742sine qua non741740"without links to former colonial interests".739738rose to call attention to the situation in Zimbabwe; and to move for Papers.742sine qua non741740"without links to former colonial interests".739738Baroness Park of Monmouth
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that reply. I am glad to hear that we are open to learning from abroad. Does he agree that in the countries to which the Question refers many disasters were foretold but have yet to come about? Also, as it is national No Smoking Day, can he update us on the Government's tobacco control strategy, particularly on the reduction in the prevalence of smoking and on tackling advertising?Baroness Morgan of Drefelin
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Morgan of Drefelin
: My Lords, what discussions have there been with the authorities of the countries named in the Question about the cost of compliance with the change in the law? Who bears the cost of compliance with those changes?Baroness Barker
: My Lords, in the Minister's response to the noble Baroness, he referred to times from diagnosis. What is the Government's response to the increased waiting time from the point of referral to the point of diagnosis?Baroness Barker
Zimbabwean,754: My Lords, I, too, congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Park, on securing the debate.Zimbabwean,754Baroness D'Souza
: My Lords, does the Minister not agree that the national shortage of crucial staff, particularly radiographers, has contributed significantly to the disappointing progress of the Cancer Plan? Does he not therefore also agree that a more imaginative use not only of the staff, but of the expensive equipment—working longer hours and weekends, and making the maximum use of equipment and staff—would be a way forward?Baroness Hooper
: My Lords, how does the Minister reconcile his response to the noble Countess with the recommendation of the all-party group that OPs should, for the moment, be removed from production and use and that the Government should consider compensating those who had been affected in the past? His Answer does not have any link with the group's recommendation.Baroness Byford
782781780: My Lords, I welcome this debate on the forthcoming United Kingdom presidency of the European Union, and I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, for calling attention to this important issue.782781780Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
728: My Lords, I have just enjoyed the most delicious lunch with the all-party smokers committee. Does the Minister share my views on the restaurateur quoted in the newspapers recently,
728Baroness Trumpington
819: My Lords, there is a real temptation to go over the concerns and anxieties about those who are going to benefit from the reduction and about the delay in payments and a temptation to have another half-hour's debate. However, the Minister will be delighted to know that I shall not go over all that again, although possibly we shall have an opportunity to do so on another occasion.
819Baroness Hanham
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that short, brief and succinct explanation of these regulations. I am delighted to say that we have no objection to them. Option C, the one that introduces the largest percentage increase, must be the right response. Having looked at the replies to the consultation on the website, it is clear that all local authorities have, surprisingly, agreed that that is the way forward.Baroness Hanham
821: My Lords, I thank the Minister for dealing with both these codes of practice at the same time. As far as I can see, they vary very little between one and the other, except for the implication for the National Health Service and foundation trusts—now coming into focus more and more—and the risk element, which is now a great part of the regulator's interest in what is being done in the health service.
821Baroness Hanham
: My Lords, before the Minister replies, I think that somewhere along the line, I should have declared an interest both as a member of a local authority and chairman of a health trust.Baroness Hanham
Farmers Guardianasked Her Majesty's Government:Farmers GuardianThe Countess of Mar
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord for that reply. Is he aware that it is some 13 years since I started asking questions about organophosphates? The House has been very tolerant with me in all that time. Can he explain, if organophosphates are safe and they have been tested for their safety, efficacy and their quality, why farmers have been required since that time to wear space suits when they are dipping and to have a proficiency certificate to allow them to buy sheep dips? Why are all those precautions taken if they are safe?The Countess of Mar
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware that within statistics there are also individual experiences? I wish to share one with my noble friend and seek his view about the sad news in my family that my brother-in-law was diagnosed with lung cancer on 10 February and yesterday received radiotherapy treatment for the first time. That is a good news story and I hope that the treatment will be successful from his point of view.Baroness Wall of New Barnet
806: My Lords, I too am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Dykes, for introducing this important debate today. It is always a privilege to contribute to these impressive debates. I feel very humble replying from these Benches after a list of many well-informed and distinguished speakers, with understandably strong feelings and strongly held opinions, as we heard in the detailed speech of my noble friend Lord Stevens regarding the constitution, which I shall not touch on today.806Baroness Rawlings
807: My Lords, I would love to debate that further, as I feel quite strongly about it, but this is not the time. What a shame. Another time.807Baroness Rawlings
808: My Lords, I was talking about regulations, not currencies. That is a different argument, like the one I will have later with the noble Lord, Lord Tomlinson.808Baroness Rawlings
: My Lords, how do the Government reconcile lifting this embargo with Britain's national interests, knowing that British defence companies must be worried by the US Congress's threat to cut off vital technology transfers to British companies?Baroness Rawlings
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. However, he will be aware that the reports of both the Reform group and the National Audit Office state that there are problems with people getting their radiotherapy. The figures show that, in 2003, 72 per cent of cases were outside the maximum acceptable delay, whereas in 1998 that figure was 32 per cent. Rather than an improvement, that is the opposite. The Minister cited breast cancer, but let us be fair in terms of the sexes. Those suffering prostate cancer feel the most disadvantaged of all cancer patients. They feel that their treatments are improving less and more slowly than any others.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Gardner of Parkes
ad hoc,817: My Lords, we are pleased to support the regulations. They appear to have been widely consulted upon and there appears to be an alarming degree of consensus that it is the right way forward. Given the shortfall in fee income, compared to local authority expenditure on planning applications, it is better to increase the fees than it is for the burden to fall on the local council tax payer, which is currently the case.ad hoc,817Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, not having been in the House or, indeed, on the Front Bench at the time, I can feel a certain amount of smugness on this issue. However, this is probably an occasion when it is better to take note of my mother's maxim of "least said, soonest mended", and so we are happy to support the regulations.Baroness Scott of Needham Market
822: My Lords, I shall speak to both codes and start by declaring an interest. I was a member of the board of the Audit Commission when the codes were drawn up, which would make it very difficult for me to offer any criticism of them, were I inclined to do so.822Baroness Scott of Needham Market
: My Lords, I am happy to help out the Minister. It concerned the question of statutory consultees, such as the Highways Agency.Baroness Scott of Needham Market
830829: My Lords, we on these Benches welcome this order and the further developments it makes in the renewables markets.
830829Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
834: My Lords, perhaps I should have included one detail just to explain to the Minister why I think it is so important. Not only does Ofgem's holding of two roles mean that legislation has to be written in this sort of detail, rather than looking for outcomes, but the sheer scale of the sums involved is huge. The sum for ROCS is currently £400 million, but by 2015 it will be £2 billion. At such a scale, it is really something to allow the market to decide how that investment is being made and
834Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Lloyd-Webber
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. I am not going to bore the House with a whole litany of broken down jetties and bus trips enforced. I would just like to ask the Minister whether any pressure could be put on the British Airports Authority at least to maintain better the buildings that it has.Lord Lloyd-Webber
: My Lords, I was slightly surprised to hear the Minister say that Heathrow is one of the best airports in the world. How often does he have occasion to use it?Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: My Lords, will my noble friend reflect, without remotely criticising the Parisian Olympic bid, that at Heathrow bits do not tend to fall off the buildings, whereas I gather that it is quite dangerous to go to Charles de Gaulle these days? That might well affect the performance of various countries in the Olympics.Lord Peston
: My Lords, I can at least say that I wholeheartedly support the London bid. To support that bid, can the Minister give the House any more hope that Crossrail may be completed in time for the Olympic Games to take place in 2012?Baroness Hamwee
: My Lords, having waited 25 minutes this morning for a tow into the cul-de-sac at Terminal 4 on a flight from Dubai, may I ask whether consideration should be given to lifting the early-morning noise restrictions for just before and during the Games, if London is successful in the bid?Viscount Waverley
: My Lords, for those who find Heathrow too much of a strain, I point out that the runway at Stansted Airport is operating at about only half its capacity at present. The British Airports Authority has a planning application in preparation to develop the buildings along Stansted airport to the point where they can handle that runway at full capacity, which will increase capacity there by 20 million passengers per annum, with far superior access to east London than Heathrow. Does the Minister agree that Stansted might make a useful additional facility, which ought to help the Olympic bid forward if access is considered to be a problem?Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I am now able to announce the result of a by-election to elect a Conservative hereditary Peer, in accordance with Standing Order 10.The Clerk of the Parliaments
: Say sorry!Noble Lords
885: My Lords, it may assist the House if I say a few words about the process of review. As the person who has had the responsibility of conducting the reviews of the detentions under the 2001 Act, I do not wish to speak about the uncertain consequences of my reviews, which have been brought home to me in recent days. I have had the experience of hearing my reviews cited in support of entirely opposite arguments on the same issue within minutes of one another, even on the much referred to "Today" programme. I shall reflect on the consequences of reviews that bring about that result.885Lord Carlile of Berriew
: Lord Ackner!Noble Lords
: Hear, hear!Noble Lords
: Order!Noble Lords
: Order!Noble Lords
: Hear, hear!Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
: No!Noble Lords
: Cheap!Noble Lords
: It turned out to be wrong, it was not wrong at the time.A Noble Lord
: Order!Noble Lords
: Order!Noble Lords
: Order!Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
: Yes!Noble Lords
: Sunset.Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
: Oh!Noble Lords
[Official Report,"I know that those on the Opposition Front Bench share my revulsion for the terrorist and his works, but for so long as their determination to safeguard the citizens turns on mere words, their expressions of revulsion are valueless".—[Official Report,"There is one acid test of a commitment to rights and the responsibilities that go with them. That is the determination of a Government to protect the citizen's right to safety from a terrorist attack".1034inter partes1033 rose to move, Motion A, that this House do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1 A and 1B to Lords Amendment No. 1; do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 37Q to 37T in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8; do not insist on its insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 37A to 37C and 37E to 370 in lieu of those Lords amendments; do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 17H to 17M to the words restored to the Bill by the Commons insistence on their disagreement to Lords Amendment No. 17; and do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 37X in lieu.[Official Report,"I know that those on the Opposition Front Bench share my revulsion for the terrorist and his works, but for so long as their determination to safeguard the citizens turns on mere words, their expressions of revulsion are valueless".—[Official Report,"There is one acid test of a commitment to rights and the responsibilities that go with them. That is the determination of a Government to protect the citizen's right to safety from a terrorist attack".1034inter partes1033Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, having paid me the compliment of drawing me into this debate, does the noble and learned Lord appreciate that one of the things that worries me is the constant harping on by members of the Government about the rights and privileges of the other place and the supremacy of the House of Commons? It sticks in our throats to hear such language when for eight years Mr Blair has dedicated most of his efforts to trying to neutralise—to neuter—the House of Commons.Lord Waddington
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, one has only to look at the guillotine on this Bill to see that what I am saying is correct. It really is a bit much to go on about the privileges of the other place when there is an extra burden put on us here simply because the Prime Minister has made sure that there has been inadequate debate on this measure in the other place.Lord Waddington
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1035: My Lords, the time has come for Parliament to make a decision about this Bill. So far as this House is concerned, it can heed the excellent words of the noble Lord, Lord Waddington, in the quote that I read, or it can continue to prevent there being an anti-terrorism Bill.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1035Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1039realpolitik: My Lords, I shall be brief. The House will know that I voted against the Government on their proposals for non-derogating orders. The Government have moved a long way since then, and I am satisfied on the principle of judicial involvement. It is a matter of vital importance. There have been other solid concessions since then.1039realpolitikLord Morris of Aberavon
"for freedom, for a free press, for free speech, for free conscience, and for a free Parliament"."Britain stood practically alone in the world for constitutional freedom".: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Richard, yesterday and the noble and learned Lord, Lord Morris of Aberavon, referred—as I must confess all Welsh politicians do from time to time—to David Lloyd George, the great Welsh wizard and inspiring Liberal leader—too mercurial, it was said, to be a safe companion for tiger shooting."for freedom, for a free press, for free speech, for free conscience, and for a free Parliament"."Britain stood practically alone in the world for constitutional freedom".Lord Thomas of Gresford
1040: My Lords, I intervene to support the speech made by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Morris of Aberavon. I have been privileged to serve with the noble and learned Lord in a number of governments and have learnt to respect his judgment. I believe in the primacy of the House of Commons. But I also believe that this House has one right, which is the power of delay. In a democracy that is a very valuable power for a revising Chamber. It is one in my judgment on which we should not be expected, in the words of the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor, to bow to the House of Commons.1040Lord Owen
104310421041: My Lords, I have not intervened in arty of the debates so far but I think the House may recognise that, by force of circumstance, I have had experience in some of these matters through the posts that I have held in Northern Ireland and the Ministry of Defence, and through my appointment by two successive Prime Ministers as chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee. I presume to indulge on your Lordships' time to make a few comments.104310421041Lord King of Bridgwater
: My Lords, on the anniversary of the Madrid bombing, I ask whether a Tory Home Secretary would repeal control orders that were introduced by this House and the Commons, in the unlikely event that the party that supported internment and exclusion orders won the forthcoming election.Lord Truscott
: My Lords, I do not know whether the noble Lord heard the report today that the Mayor of Madrid, on the anniversary of 191 people being killed and 1,200 other Spaniards being seriously wounded, has expressed his determination—he made it absolutely clear—that in fighting terrorism, he was not prepared to interfere with or seriously degrade the system of justice. He has faced just the sort of tragedy that the Government face, a threat that is, I acknowledge, in many significant ways much greater than those to which I had to respond in my time. The story is entirely anecdotal, but I understand that the Mayor of Madrid, when asked if he would like to move in the direction that the British Government propose with the Bill, was heard to say that he thought that it would be a very bad idea.Lord King of Bridgwater
1044: My Lords, I shall be brief. I have only two or three things to say, but I cannot help being provoked, yet again, by the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, whose Lloyd George would not be recognised in Criccieth. There would be absolutely no chance of that. Perhaps I should not go on about David Lloyd George. It would take a long speech and would probably bore many people in this place. He was one of my boyhood political heroes, and I was surprised to hear him being dragged into the arguments coming from the other side of the House.1044Lord Richard
: My Lords, that is the second time that quotation has been referred to. I will now say exactly what it was: I am here on my honour, as is everyone else. Temporary politicians should not be allowed permanently to remove the right of habeas corpus. That is the point, that is why I am here on my honour, and I will stand by it because I think that habeas corpus is extremely important. The noble Lord, Lord Tomlinson, yelled, "Shut up". If that is what the other side think about habeas corpus it shows exactly how intelligent their arguments are over it.The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, the House will have heard what the noble Earl had to say, and will no doubt be in a position to judge what he said. There is no doubt that he used the words "temporary politicians", and there is no doubt about to whom he was referring: the people at the other end of the Corridor. The noble Earl is claiming for himself and for this House the right in certain areas to have primacy over what goes on at the other end. That is totally wrong.Lord Richard
: Hear, hear!Noble Lords
: My Lords, I do not see how the constitution of this country can run on any basis other than that the House of Commons is indeed superior to the House of Lords. Otherwise, there is chaos. Chaos is in front of us if on any given issue this House can decide, "We think that this is so important that we are going to stick. We are going to stand with our principles and we do not care what happens down the other end". That is just plain wrong. I therefore appeal to the House at this stage, having been through all these debates and had all these votes in both Houses, to accept that the time has now come for Parliament to decide that, in accordance with constitutional tradition, principle and the rules of both Houses, on this issue the House of Commons should prevail.Lord Richard
1046Official Report,"My right hon. Friend should be a bit more careful. In whole sections of the country, the Bill is not seen as Commons versus Lords".—[Official Report,Official Report,"playing politics with our constituents' safety and security".—[Official Report,"Conservative-controlled House of Lords",1045: My Lords, I have taken no part in these proceedings. I want just two minutes to express my support for the view put forward by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Morris, and the noble Lords, Lord Owen and Lord King. After the past 24 hours, there is a risk that, as we become more tired, tempers will begin to fray and sentiments will be expressed that are best not expressed.1046Official Report,"My right hon. Friend should be a bit more careful. In whole sections of the country, the Bill is not seen as Commons versus Lords".—[Official Report,Official Report,"playing politics with our constituents' safety and security".—[Official Report,"Conservative-controlled House of Lords",1045Lord Steel of Aikwood
: My Lords, the Government have accused the Opposition—Lord Kingsland
: My Lords—Lord Joffe
: My Lords, I beg your pardon.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am a relatively inexperienced Cross-Bencher who is bemused by what is happening in this House and wants to make the right decision on which way to vote. Is the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor willing to summarise the precise reasons why the Government oppose the sunset clause?Lord Joffe
: My Lords, the Government have accused us of intransigence in the course of the past 24 hours. Yet their concessions during this period have been derisory compared to our own. We have conceded on the rule-making powers of the Lord Chief Justice. We have conceded on placing Article 6 on the face of the Bill. We are conceding today on the insertion of a committee of Privy Counsellors to review the Bill. Yesterday we conceded on the time for the kicking in of the sunset clause.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, the situation has changed in a certain material respect. We have had debates in this House in which disquiet has been repeatedly expressed. The situation that will be considered by the review committee is rather different from before. The Government would be very unwise to ignore what has happened in this House. Does the noble Lord concede therefore that when we consider the review committee we are considering something very different from what we were considering before?Lord Clinton-Davis
1047: My Lords, I certainly do not make that concession. I was not actually talking about the review committee when the noble Lord intervened; but nevertheless since he asks whether I would make that concession I do not. It is wholly different from the sunset clause and entirely unacceptable to us. Quite apart from anything else, it would not give your Lordships' House the opportunity to amend the Bill before it was renewed; and there are many other reasons why we should oppose it.1047Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, the noble Lord said that the review would not enable this House to move amendments to the legislation. I suggest that neither would a sunset clause, which would bring the legislation to an end. The review can make recommendations about amendments to the Bill. Then it would be up to the Government and the two Houses, after the procedure had been renewed, to come forward with amendments to the Bill on the grounds of the reviewers' recommendation.Baroness Lockwood
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord King, himself, and several other Members referred to the Government's proposal that the whole question of the regulation of terrorism and the removal of the threat be looked at carefully so that we can all agree on the fundamentals of a new Bill—a comprehensive Bill—which will come to both Houses at a later date. So I think that we are exaggerating the importance of a sunset clause in comparison with the assurances and the amendments that have been made to the review process by the Government.Baroness Lockwood
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her intervention and her question. I am afraid that I have, most respectfully, to disagree with her. The whole point of the sunset clause is that the Bill dies and you have a new Bill, so we can formulate it in any way we want. We cannot do that with the clause that the Government have inserted.Lord Kingsland
1048: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord King, is right. There has been a time limit in practice on the Bill; it has come from the decision of the Law Lords, which we respect. One could have extended for a short time the Part 4 powers but,
1048Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor has made the point that the reason against the sunset clause is that it runs the risk that there will be no law. At the very beginning of his response this time, he recognised that there was universal support in this House, in all parties, that there has to be law to deal with these issues. Therefore, whatever was the government, it is inconceivable that any government would not recognise the responsibility; use their majority to achieve it if necessary; and look to the responsible response of opposition parties to ensure that at all times in this country—because no one party has the monopoly of responsibility for the security of our citizens—there would be a law in place.Lord King of Bridgwater
1049: My Lords, I quite agree that no one party has such a responsibility. We seek to
1049Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I thank the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for giving way. Perhaps I may ask him directly the following question. In a situation where the difference between a review and a sunset clause depends to a very great extent on the belief in this House that such a sunset clause would oblige a recasting of the legislation, and in the light of what happened in the Newton committee—some doubt about whether that would be equally the case with regard to an annual review—perhaps I may suggest to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor that he has in his hands the capacity to unite this House and another place in a united determination to overcome terrorism. You do not overcome terrorism if there are deep divisions between the parties, exacerbated by a general election, in a way that now confronts us all and that could present the greatest possible danger to this country.Baroness Williams of Crosby
: My Lords, the noble Baroness puts her finger on the problem: we do want to try to unite both Houses. That is why throughout this 24-hour period and before we have introduced sensible provisions, very similar to the provisions introduced where there are problems of this sort, which go as far as we believe we can—that is, the review and the renewal procedures—without going as far as leaving open the possibility of there being no anti-terrorism law. Does this House think it possible that it would not agree with the detail of a terrorist law that the Government produced? Look at the debates that have gone on in relation to this.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for giving way. Is not the fatal inadequacy of the renewal procedure he is pressing on the House the fact that a statutory instrument effecting the renewal is unamendable?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
1050: My Lords, that is absolutely true but, in order for there to be a new terrorist Act, there needs to be agreement between both Houses.
1050Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, before the noble and learned Lord sits down, he said that in order for a new piece of legislation to flow from the review procedure there would have to be agreement between both Houses of Parliament, if I understood him correctly. But since the noble and learned Lord has expressed such a contemptuous view of your Lordships' House and its role in the legislative process today, how can that agreement mean anything?Lord Kingsland
: My Lords. I have certainly not expressed a contemptuous view about this House. Since I have been here for the past seven years, I have always understood the constitutional position to be, as someone said, that we have the power to delay and we have the power by that power to delay to make the other place think again. We have used that power. There are legitimate and bona fide reasons why the other place has taken the view that the sunset clause is not the appropriate way to deal with it.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, shortly after the debate, which started at five o'clock this morning, I was walking along a corridor in your Lordships' House when I happened to pass the Home Secretary. He glared at me and said, "You made a terrible speech". I took that as something of a compliment. But that attitude shows why the ping-pong on this occasion has been so contentious. Indeed, it is by far the most contentious of any that I have seen in the past seven and a half years.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I apologise for intervening. Is it the position of noble Lords on the Liberal Democrat Benches that if we do not agree to the sunset clause they will veto the Bill?Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1051: My Lords, so far as we are concerned, the answer would be "Yes". I cannot, of course, speak for the Conservative Benches.
1051Lord Goodhart
915: My Lords, we are happy with the Government's new amendment, which, we accept, is a considerable step forward and deals with a problem that had been of some concern to us. We on these Benches are happy to support the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, in his insistence on Amendments No. 38 to 40.915Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, perhaps I may comment on the subject of exculpatory material. I am glad to see Amendment No. 42D, tabled by the Government and I associate myself with what has been said by the Front Benches. I said some harsh words a couple of nights ago on the basis that the Bill looked as though it gave authority for the Secretary of State to withhold from the suspect material that was exculpatory of him and I am glad to see that Ministers, as I would have expected, have demonstrated their good faith in that regard.Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: My Lords, I speak very briefly just to seek some reassurance from the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor and/or the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, regarding the same debate about which the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mayhew, was holding forth very strongly about exculpatory material and evidence. We were also talking about intercept evidence being put into court. The reassurance that I am seeking is that, as I read it now, intercept material would, of course, be seen by the Secretary of State, but that it would not be necessary for him to put that into the court. I seek this reassurance, especially because I heard the right honourable David Davis this morning on the radio, stating categorically a big list of things that his party would not go back on, including the inclusion of intercept evidence in court. Could I have some sort of answer?Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
916"The rules of court must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights"?: My Lords, as a non-lawyer, could I confess to some puzzlement about the amendment that says that:
916"The rules of court must comply with the United Kingdom's obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights"?Baroness Whitaker
"the exclusion of evidence in control proceedings, where there is reason to believe that such evidence has been obtained by torture in any jurisdiction".: My Lords, I add my personal thanks for the drafting of Amendment No. 42D. it was a matter about which your Lordships may recall I was concerned at Second Reading. I am grateful that the Government have dealt with that in such a satisfactory way."the exclusion of evidence in control proceedings, where there is reason to believe that such evidence has been obtained by torture in any jurisdiction".Lord Thomas of Gresford
917: My Lords, three points are left. First, why should it be the Lord Chancellor and not the Lord Chief Justice? The reason for that is that the orders need to be made in a hurry. It is wrong that the Lord Chief Justice should be in the special position. It should be the Lord Chancellor. The merit of that can be tested by the fact that the draft rules have now been published, so that people can form their own views in relation to it.917Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor for his reply. I shall glance this afternoon at the draft rules, if I have an opportunity to do so, since he has drawn to my attention that they are now available.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, does the noble Lord dispute the proposition that the ECHR applies to the rules and that if they were in breach of Article 6, they would be struck down?Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I have no doubt whatever that if they were in breach of Article 6 they would be struck down. My concern is that the noble and learned Lord accepts that a civil right is involved, but he does not accept that the later criminal provisions of Article 6 apply to the procedure. That is the difference between us and that is why we are keen that Article 6 remains on the face of the Bill.Lord Kingsland
Lord McIntosh of Haringey.: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.Lord McIntosh of Haringey.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
Before Clause 1, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 1:
Before Clause 1, insert the following new clause—Lord Clement-Jones
: In speaking to support the amendment tabled by the noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones, I speak also to my Amendment No. 9, which is on similar points. The noble Lord's amendment raises significant, important issues regarding the support and maintenance of existing rights to games and machines by the current industry—be it pubs, bingo halls or small casinos.Baroness Buscombe
: Can the Minister provide me with some information that I cannot find elsewhere on existing casinos? According to different sources, there are between 131 and 137 existing casinos in operation. Perhaps the Minister knows exactly how many. If those casinos were new casinos, under the Bill would they be classified as small or large casinos?Lord Greaves
925924923: I am very sympathetic to the motivation behind the amendment tabled by the noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones. I want to give him the reassurance that he seeks about the clarity of grandfather rights. I know where these amendments come from and I well appreciate that the grandfather rights available in the Bill are scattered throughout it.
925924923Lord McIntosh of Haringey
The licensing objectives: I thank the Minister for the extremely clear nature of his reply, which was very helpful as he went through the different categories. Likewise, I have considerable sympathy with the second half of his remarks in terms of the purposes of the Bill and I have no quarrel with the intention to update gambling law to ensure that we have a properly ordered industry. The arcade industry will take comfort from what he has said. I shall have to consider the detail of what the Minister has said, but it seems to me that some comfort is given in terms of existing entitlements and their continuation. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.The licensing objectivesLord Clement-Jones
"one or more persons who have specialist knowledge of the welfare of children and their families".927"Half the public are not persuaded that making it easier for people to gamble and for casinos to attract customers will boost UK tourism".926"() preventing an overall increase in the incidence of gambling in the United Kingdom,"Page 1, line 6, at end insert—
"() preventing an overall increase in the incidence of gambling in the United Kingdom,"moved Amendment No. 2:
"one or more persons who have specialist knowledge of the welfare of children and their families".927"Half the public are not persuaded that making it easier for people to gamble and for casinos to attract customers will boost UK tourism".926"() preventing an overall increase in the incidence of gambling in the United Kingdom,"Page 1, line 6, at end insert—
"() preventing an overall increase in the incidence of gambling in the United Kingdom,"Baroness Buscombe
928: I should like to speak to Amendments Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 and to Amendment No. 52A in my name. I very much welcome the fact that the Government have included as a priority in the licensing objectives the protection of children and vulnerable persons. However. I do not entirely see this admirable policy unfolding in the body of the Bill. 1 hope that the Minister will help me on that.928Lord Northbourne
: I find the amendments in this group curious. They invite Second Reading speeches. One can find plenty of faults with the Bill as a whole, but surely nobody can fault the objectives of the Bill, which are well conceived and well drafted. Of course, there will be an increase in gambling in this country—that is what the Bill intends. Furthermore, the Bill intends to ensure that the damage that comes from that increase in gambling is as limited as it can be. Whether there is any demand for this increase in gambling in the first place is another matter, but we dealt with that at Second Reading.Viscount Falkland
: I fear that my expertise is not in gambling. My expertise, such as it is, is in low-income families and deprived and disadvantaged families. I have seen some of the problems that are caused by poverty. Indeed, all of us know, and I think that the noble Viscount will probably accept, that debt is one of the most important factors in making a misery of the lives of many families. That is my concern.Lord Northbourne
929: I see where the noble Lord is going and from whence he is coming. I agree that there is a danger to children, particularly in technology gambling such as slot-machines—not so much in traditional forms of gambling such as horseracing, which was mentioned in the evidence that we had in the committee from those who worked at Gordon House. Slot-machines were the main cause of concern in relation to the evidence that they collected from the people whom they treated.929Viscount Falkland
931"It has been firmly established that all gaming machines, regardless of the size of the stake or the amount of prize money, are unsuitable for children and young people".930: As these amendments are very much about children and the protection of children as well as low-income groups, I would like to speak to my amendments, which come somewhat later—Amendments Nos. 96, 97 and 99. The intention of these amendments is to bring the UK into line with the rest of the developed world and to stop children playing on fruit machines.931"It has been firmly established that all gaming machines, regardless of the size of the stake or the amount of prize money, are unsuitable for children and young people".930Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: I ask the guidance of the Minister, as I had hoped to comment at this stage, under the cover of the amendment of the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, and in support along the lines of the noble Baroness, Lady Howe, regarding Amendments Nos. 96, 97 and 99, to which my right reverend brother the Bishop of Coventry has added his name. If he would rather that I did not make that speech at this time, perhaps he would tell me. It is a brief one, but I will be guided by the noble Lord.The Lord Bishop of Southwell
: I am in a difficulty here. I am perfectly happy for any Member of the Committee to abbreviate the proceedings by debating more amendments together. I certainly agreed with the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, and the noble Lord, Lord Northbourne, about the way in which we should debate the amendments which she announced. The noble Baroness, Lady Howe, was entirely entitled to make her speech. I listened to it with great interest and a good deal of sympathy. But I hope she will not make it again when we come to Amendment No. 96. If the right reverend Prelate wants to make his speech now, that is fine, as long as he does not make it again.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
"I have personal experiences in how gambling can damage people and their family. Both my husband and I have been problem gamblers and it has caused many financial and emotional problems. Growing up in a seaside town I had easy access to arcades along with many other children. The ease in which somebody of any age can gamble on a fruit machine worries me so much"."I emigrated to the UK from Australia in 2000, and now live in a rural town on the east coast of Scotland. Coming from a country where gambling is legally permitted only for adults, I was shocked to find that my son (then age 9) could gamble on slot machines with his friends at the local amusement arcade. He was thoroughly smitten with this for a while, spent most of his pocket money on the machines, and I suspect he stole money from my purse on more than once occasion to fund his gambling. Although that stage seems to have passed, thankfully, I am very concerned that he was and still is at risk through gambling being available to him so easily".932: I thank the noble Lord. It is either now or later, I suppose. Like the overwhelming majority of people in this country, I believe strongly that gambling should be an adult-only activity. Indeed, I find it difficult to think otherwise. Gambling requires, we are led to believe, advanced mental processes which children simply do not have. The Secretary of State herself has said that children and gambling do not mix. Allowing children to gamble on fruit machines flies in the face of everyone's stated position, and it is a glaring anomaly."I have personal experiences in how gambling can damage people and their family. Both my husband and I have been problem gamblers and it has caused many financial and emotional problems. Growing up in a seaside town I had easy access to arcades along with many other children. The ease in which somebody of any age can gamble on a fruit machine worries me so much"."I emigrated to the UK from Australia in 2000, and now live in a rural town on the east coast of Scotland. Coming from a country where gambling is legally permitted only for adults, I was shocked to find that my son (then age 9) could gamble on slot machines with his friends at the local amusement arcade. He was thoroughly smitten with this for a while, spent most of his pocket money on the machines, and I suspect he stole money from my purse on more than once occasion to fund his gambling. Although that stage seems to have passed, thankfully, I am very concerned that he was and still is at risk through gambling being available to him so easily".932The Lord Bishop of Southwell
933: I was, uncharacteristically, going to remain silent during the debate on the amendments put forward by the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe. Yet, since the noble Baroness, Lady Howe, has fired the gun on her amendment rather earlier than expected, I think it worth making a few comments.
933Lord Clement-Jones
: I should like to ask the noble Lord two things. First, what is the source of the last figures that he gave? Secondly, I have worked for several years in this Chamber with the noble Lord's colleagues on child safety issues, and I am shocked that he, speaking from his Front Benches, is not looking at this from a child safety point of view. I am sure that many or at least some of his colleagues might take a different view from a child safety perspective, in looking at children's safety first.Baroness Thornton
934: The noble Baroness will not shame me into supporting the amendment. I wish to see an evidence-based approach to these matters and, at the moment, the evidence is absolutely not there. There is a perfectly good mechanism within the Bill. The objective set out in Clause 1, which was endorsed by the scrutiny committee to which my noble friend referred and by the Budd report, which is in many respects an excellent report, gives the framework for future action. The ability of the Secretary of State to enable regulations to be passed by affirmative resolution which ban children from using the category D machines if the evidence becomes available is an
934Lord Clement-Jones
: The noble Lord seems quite happy with the fact that 5 per cent of children are already in a worrying situation with regard to addiction. We have all accepted that if there is an extra number of casinos, if the provisions go ahead, there will be more opportunities and a higher likelihood of children becoming addicted. Is the noble Lord really saying that he is not concerned at the numbers that we know exist already?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
: If that was the evidence, I would be concerned, but that is the view of Professor Mark Griffiths. It seems to me that people have simply ramped up a whole campaign on the back of one academic from Nottingham Trent University. That is not an adequate basis for changing the provisions in the Bill.Lord Clement-Jones
935de facto: The noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones, rightly used the words "flawed research". In my experience, flawed research is research that does not support the conclusion that one has come to independently and from prejudice before—and now we are seeing a swapping of such flawed research. The Nottingham Trent University figure of 5 per cent seems extraordinarily dubious and based on a very strange view of what constitutes addictive behaviour. Nevertheless, those who support that point of view will no doubt accept it.935de factoLord Lipsey
: With regard to what the noble Lord said about the protections in the Bill for children, I believe that he commended those protections that limit gambling by children aged eight and under. Is the logic of that commendation that it would be better for there to be none at all? I ask that with a genuinely open mind.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I am sorry that I have not made myself at all clear to the noble Lord, because my whole argument was that no, it would not be better—that a system in which children cannot have anything at all to do with gambling until they are 18 and then are suddenly free to invest their entire fortunes any way they want may be a less effective way in which to prevent problem gambling than allowing them relatively harmless forms. Most people would probably think that "penny falls" fell into that category, while we can ban the sort of hard gambling on big prize machines, which cause the harm. So no, I do not believe that it would be right to prevent all gambling by all children up to the age of 18.Lord Lipsey
936: I should preface my brief speech by saying that I will follow the old-fashioned principle of confining my remarks to the amendments in this group. By not speaking at Second Reading, because I had a long-standing engagement to host a dinner elsewhere, I have spared myself the mass correspondence that other noble Lords have provoked for themselves. I realise that in my old-fashioned behaviour I am in a category of my own.936Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
"preventing gambling from being a source of crime and disorder…ensuring that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way … protecting children and other vulnerable persons".937: The noble Lord, Lord Lipsey, told us how at the age of 11 he placed a bet on a horse and won—I think—£4 11s 8d Knowing some of the jokes that the noble Lord has told against himself in the House, all I can say is that perhaps when he was 11 he was big for his age—well, he has made jokes about that before."preventing gambling from being a source of crime and disorder…ensuring that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way … protecting children and other vulnerable persons".937Lord Greaves
"the current evidence is insufficient to make definitive judgments"938: The Committee will be pleased to know that I have thrown away most of my speech. Considering that there is a game of ping-pong going on in the other place and in this, I have had my own game of ping-pong trying to get in before now. I had hoped to make a contribution later, but that is not possible."the current evidence is insufficient to make definitive judgments"938Lord Pendry
: I was not going to be drawn into this debate. However, when I listened to the speech of the noble Baroness, Lady Howe of Idlicote, I felt that I ought to put in just a little plug for the sort of family-run traditional seaside amusement centres that provide harmless entertainment for many thousands of visitors of all ages.Viscount Ullswater
939: I am now responding to five different groups, which is perfectly satisfactory to me. I will start by rebutting what the noble Viscount, Lord Falkland, said. He said that the Bill is intended
939Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I am sorry to interrupt the Minister so soon, but how can he seriously say that, with the introduction via this Bill of the super-casinos with their 1,250 category A machines?Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: I will not go into a sixth or seventh group, which is what I would be doing if I responded to that now. I like to try to deal with the amendments before us, even though I am flexible about which amendments are before us. I would rather stick to them at the moment.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I was asking the Minister a question that is directly related to his twice-repeated assertion that this Bill is not about increasing gambling. My question was directly germane to that.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
"To permit gambling, in so far as the Commission thinks it reasonably consistent with pursuit of the licensing objectives".940: The Bill allows some opportunities for increased gambling, and it reduces some opportunities for gambling. It controls some gambling that in part was not controlled. You cannot make a single judgment about it; you must look at the Bill as a whole to make judgments. If you want to change parts of the Bill, you put down amendments to change those parts of the Bill. That is the way in which we operate in this House."To permit gambling, in so far as the Commission thinks it reasonably consistent with pursuit of the licensing objectives".940Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: The intervention that I made was not a moral one. I made it because the behaviour of adults can deeply affect children and other vulnerable people. It is there that we may have a responsibility, as a nation and a parliament.Lord Northbourne
943942941: I entirely agree. I was going to refer to that when I came on to the noble Lord's amendment and those in the group with Amendment No. 96. As I said by quoting Clause 22, the point is that the Gambling Commission is already charged to protect vulnerable persons from being harmed by gambling, whatever their income. In any case, surely there are practical problems about requiring gambling operators to check on people's income before taking them on as customers. I do not see how that could be carried out.943942941Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: The Minister said the level of problem gambling in 2000 was 0.6 to 0.8 per cent of the adult population. Is that the same as 275,000 to 325,000?Lord Greaves
: I think, without my calculator, the noble Lord, Lord Greaves, can do the sum as easily as I. Those figures—275,000 to 325,000—sound very suspicious to me. As a cookbook statistician, I would run a mile from anybody who was as precise as that.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I am grateful to the Minister for allowing us to have a really important and good debate, not only on the amendments that were originally put down in this grouping, but on others that have been included.Baroness Buscombe
944: Before the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, leaves the point of research, I would like to say something that I may not have the opportunity to say again.944Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I thank the Minister, as I am sure that all Members of the Committee will, because I recognise that noble Lords who spoke on Second Reading felt that this area was hugely important. As we have all accepted this evening, time may he of the essence so wherever possible it is important for us to give such assurances for the future, both in seeing the Bill on to the statute book and thereafter. I hope and infer from that response that research will be ongoing.Baroness Buscombe
: It was an investment.Lord Lipsey
Facilities for gamblingAmendments Nos. 3 to 5 not moved.945: I did not see it; quite quickly, when I had lost my entire pocket money, which was half a crown—perhaps it is rather ageing to say that—I realised that that was a pretty lousy way of spending one's money and that sweets were rather more enjoyable and long term. I do not mean to make light of what is a terribly important issue. I recognise that the Government have said that they will continue to review it.Facilities for gamblingAmendments Nos. 3 to 5 not moved.945Baroness Buscombe
: I remind the Committee that if Amendment No. 6 is agreed to I cannot call Amendments Nos. 7 or 8 because of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale)
"who do nothing more than act as a carrier of information for persons providing facilities for gambling or for consumers partaking in gambling"Page 3, line 3, leave out subsection (3).moved Amendment No. 6:
"who do nothing more than act as a carrier of information for persons providing facilities for gambling or for consumers partaking in gambling"Page 3, line 3, leave out subsection (3).Lord Clement-Jones
946: I do not specifically have anything to say on Amendment No. 6, but it is the first opportunity I have had to speak since Amendments Nos. 2 and 3. I did not speak on Amendment No. 4 in my first speech, because I thought I would have the chance to speak on it later.
946Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
: I specifically said that. The noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, said so when she introduced Amendment No. 2. I said it when I responded to her, and in an intervention before the right reverend Prelate spoke.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I apologise to the Minister. I did not hear the first remarks of the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, so all his subsequent remarks were academic, in a sense, because they were hung on the noble Baroness's original comment. I do not begrudge my loss.Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
"the facilities are adapted or presented in such a way as to facilitate, or draw attention to the possibility of. their use for gambling"."who do nothing more than act as a carrier of information for persons providing facilities for gambling or consumers partaking in gambling": I will be brief. Forgive me if I repeat some of what the noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones, has already said. I welcome the Government's concession to the concerns raised by the mobile phone operators to Clause 5. They welcome the explanation on page 10 of the Explanatory Notes to the Bill, which clarifies subsection (2)(c) of Clause 5, stating that mobile telephone operators,
"the facilities are adapted or presented in such a way as to facilitate, or draw attention to the possibility of. their use for gambling"."who do nothing more than act as a carrier of information for persons providing facilities for gambling or consumers partaking in gambling"Baroness Buscombe
947: I am grateful for the manner in which the amendment has been moved and
947Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I thank the Minister for that response. That is what is understood in the industry and is entirely acceptable. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Clement-Jones
sine qua non,951: I support the amendment put forward by the noble Baroness—to which we on these Benches have added our names—which she admirably and comprehensively introduced. I shall speak also to Amendments Nos. 19 and 139 standing in my name and that of my noble friend Lord Addington.sine qua non,951Lord Clement-Jones
: I thank the noble Lord for giving way. Will the proof of identity be just a proof of age or does it have to have a photograph? Do you have to have a driving licence? Do you have to have a passport? If you have nothing with a photo, will it be acceptable? How will it work?Baroness Golding
: It should be quite clear that it should be photographic proof of ID, along the lines of a driving licence. Nowadays, old driving licences, even for people like me who have held a driving licence for a long time, are, increasingly, being replaced by that kind of photo ID. The argument made by those larger operators is that it takes three minutes per person to process ID in this way. Frankly, on this form of ID there is a photograph, a date of birth and a name which should be very easy to process when entering a casino.Lord Clement-Jones
: I am sorry to persist, but suppose you do not have a driving licence or a passport or anything with a photograph of yourself on it. Are you then prohibited from entering a casino?Baroness Golding
: It is quite clear that such a person should be prohibited; he should have proof of identity. Changing from a system under which one had to sign up 24 hours before entry to this system, one cannot simply allow a free-for-all with the new casinos. It seems to me that that is a bridge too far and is precisely why these amendments have been tabled.Lord Clement-Jones
: Let us be clear. Is the noble Lord saying that if you do not drive a car—if you do not have enough money to drive a car—and if you do not go abroad so do not have a passport, there is no way you should enter a casino? Surely, that is discriminatory. Will we not get into trouble for that?Baroness Golding
952: All the major casinos have plans to issue identity cards of their own to those who have their identity vetted. They would do that through a utility bill or whatever. Those who do not have on-the-spot ID can obtain ID generated by the casinos. It seems to me that that is an extremely sensible check. If someone were to exchange chips of a certain denomination in a casino he would require such an ID.
952Lord Clement-Jones
: I am sorry to persist; please forgive me. If you have no method of saying. "This is me", should you take an electricity bill or a gas bill to a casino to prove who you are? You could be anyone.Baroness Golding
953: I do not believe that it is beyond the wit of most people to prove that they are who they are and people should be required to do that once they enter such areas. I do not believe that that places too high a burden on people. Currently, if people wish to enter a casino, they need to have membership. This is a relaxing of that rule. We are not trying to reintroduce membership; we are saying that ID should be required.953Lord Clement-Jones
: What I know about this issue is what I learned when I was on the scrutiny committee for the Bill. As my noble friend Lady Buscombe said, we recommended that the space between the leisure complexes within the large casinos and the actual casino part should be well protected. But the evidence that we took from those who are likely to invest in the casinos persuaded us that they have extremely efficient systems for dealing with this transfer of people. Only adults would be allowed to transfer. We were satisfied with that.Lord Wade of Chorlton
954: I support these amendments and the intention behind them. I admit that I would still prefer to have in place a 24-hour cooling period when people can decide whether they wish to go into the casino part of the grand establishments that we are told are being proposed as super-casinos. But if we cannot have that the ID is an essential requirement. I would not be satisfied with
954Baroness Howe of Idlicote
955: I also support the intention behind this amendment. I have listened very carefully to the speech of the noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones, and the intervention of the noble Baroness, Lady Golding, and to the debate, which is what I hope we all try to do. I understand the concept of identifying people and we can argue about whether cards should have photographs. We know why they should have photographs: so that we can compare the card to the person who is holding it. That is fair enough. However, I cannot understand why anyone thinks that knowing who the person in front of you is will have any effect on that person's behaviour.955Lord Mancroft
957956: I also have a great deal of sympathy with the thinking behind these amendments. I have listened to this debate carefully and with some appreciation to the debate that has taken place. The issue is to look at the arguments that are put forward in debate, to look at the amendments themselves and to see how far the Bill as drafted satisfies the objectives that have been expressed. I am pleased that the debate has concentrated on two issues—on keeping out under-18s from casinos and on money laundering. I was pleased to have the explicit assurance of the noble Lord, Lord Clement-Jones, that the objective of these amendments is not to slow down entry to casinos as such.957956Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Would the Minister not agree that at the moment, if somebody wants to gamble in a casino, they accept quite readily that they must provide some sort of ID and must go through some sort of membership process in order to do so? Why, then, is it right suddenly to lift that sensible barrier to allow people to go into those gaming areas, when it is entirely a game of chance whether they will be checked?Baroness Buscombe
: I think I should turn that argument around. This Bill abolishes membership requirements for casinos, and nobody has suggested that they should not be abolished. Once you abolished those requirements, you have to look at the purpose of identification. If the purpose is two-fold—first, proof of age, and, secondly, money-laundering—it is not rational to require photographic identification for everybody. Not a single one of us here would pass for being under 18. No. I am sorry—the noble Lord, Lord Addington, would.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Even before I was 18, I never looked under 18.Lord Addington
: Perhaps that is true.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: And nobody has suggested in the course of the debate that that was the intention. The noble Baroness, Lady Howe, may have regretted that the 24-hour rule did not apply, but there was no intention on the part of any of the speakers in favour of the amendment that that should be the case.Lord Clement-Jones
958: I am glad to hear it. With regard to proof of age, there are perfectly good analogies in other areas in which under-18s would not be allowed, and those should be applied to casinos as well. The penalties for failing to observe proof of age are very powerful.958Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I do not want to delay the Minister, but I do not understand why knowing someone's name and address is going to help stop money-laundering. Will he explain?Lord Northbourne
959: I specifically said that for money-laundering purposes a photo-identification is not necessarily the only requirement. The identification rules under the money-laundering directive are complicated and it would be inappropriate for me to set them out in detail, even if I had them before me. I can assure the Committee that there is no intention to derogate in any way from anything in the money-laundering directives. We have
959Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Noble Lords will agree—if I may say so to the Minister—that those in the money-laundering business make sure that they have very good methods of identification.Lord Wade of Chorlton
: That was rather what the noble Lord, Lord Steinberg, said on Second Reading.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I thank the Minister for his fulsome reply. I will begin by responding to the good parts. I am grateful to him for making it clear that it is the Government's intention that there should be no merging of the gaming experience with other leisure facilities. That is something about which I and other noble Lords have been deeply concerned.Baroness Buscombe
: To walk in off the sidewalk straight into a machine.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Absolutely. I was there not so long ago with my children. We were able to play bingo over breakfast if we so wished. That will not be the case in these areas.Baroness Buscombe
960: I appreciate that the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, is considering what
960Lord McIntosh of Haringey
"Given our experience in the US, we believe the most effective way to ensure that underage gambling does not occur is for the new Gambling Commission to require operators to check the ID of any individual who appears to be under the age of 25".: I very much appreciate the Minister's willingness to discuss this, as we have already had some discussions on other aspects of the Bill. However, I want to make it very clear that, in my view, this is crucially important to seeing the Bill go on to the statute book."Given our experience in the US, we believe the most effective way to ensure that underage gambling does not occur is for the new Gambling Commission to require operators to check the ID of any individual who appears to be under the age of 25".Baroness Buscombe
: The noble Baroness may be under the impression that I did not want a proof of age if there was a challenge to the person's age, but I was not saying that. I chair CitizenCard, a proof of age scheme, and we have issued many hundreds of thousands of cards for proof of age. They are to protect people such as bookmakers, by preventing young children going into a bookmaker's. If there is a challenge to a person's age in a bookmaker's such as Ladbrokes, they have to produce proof of age. Otherwise they are not allowed to gamble. The same applies to many other organisations such as Camelot, which also is part of the proof of age scheme. Why should you have to have proof of age—identification—other than when you are challenged when going into a casino if you do not have to have it to go into a bookmaker's?Baroness Golding
961: That poses the question of whether perhaps we are being too lenient on
961Baroness Buscombe
: I am so sorry to interrupt again, but there will be provision for bookmaking areas within some of the destination areas. Is the noble Baroness saying that because casinos should have proof of age, or identification, the bookmakers that are in those destination leisure facilities should also have them, when they are all linked in together?Baroness Golding
: I hear what the noble Baroness has said. I am asking for the gambling experience to be separate from the other leisure areas. The Minister has agreed that is exactly what the Government also intend. What flows from that is that, yes, the bookmakers will be separate from other leisure entertainment, and they will be in those cordoned-off gambling areas. If you are cordoning off, if you have rigorous checks, what is wrong with putting some sort of low-level safeguard in the Bill, which many companies ask for already in terms of having a form of ID? I am also thinking to the future in terms of technology. This will be a process, whereby the Gambling Commission will be able to watch. As technology improves, people will be able to walk into those areas and have photo-recognition sorted within seconds. We are not asking for something that will create a burden for the operators.Baroness Buscombe
962"and that such person is over the age of 18 years on each occasion that satisfactory evidence of identity is required to be produced under this Act (including the proffering on a second or subsequent occasion of entry of a card or token issued to them by the licensee of the casino premises) for the purpose of verifying the identity of such person by reference to a photographic image stored visually or electronically upon the card or token"."evidence which is reasonably capable of establishing (and does in fact establish … ) the name, address and a photographic likeness of the person producing the evidence".: Let me try again. I have looked carefully at all the amendments, and apart from wording or drafting issues, we differ on only one issue. Parliamentary counsel would never allow me to accept an amendment as drafted; it would have to be rewritten. In terms of policy, we differ in only one place. That is on Amendment No. 221. Subsection (6) of the amendment states that there must be,
962"and that such person is over the age of 18 years on each occasion that satisfactory evidence of identity is required to be produced under this Act (including the proffering on a second or subsequent occasion of entry of a card or token issued to them by the licensee of the casino premises) for the purpose of verifying the identity of such person by reference to a photographic image stored visually or electronically upon the card or token"."evidence which is reasonably capable of establishing (and does in fact establish … ) the name, address and a photographic likeness of the person producing the evidence".Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Let me ask a question, because the Minister delivered that at fairly high speed.Lord Clement-Jones
: I was reading.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Is the Minister saying that he wants to discuss the photographic element? Is that the one point at issue as far as he is concerned? ID is no problem but photographic ID is what he is talking about. One of the issues here for decision—I am sure that the noble Baroness will need to take this decision—is about demonstrating to the Minister the strength of opinion on this matter on the Opposition Benches. The issue is whether to go for a vote and conclusively demonstrate that beyond peradventure, or whether the Minister's assurance is strong enough in those circumstances. Therefore, the more strongly the Minister can give us that assurance, the more possible it is that a vote can be avoided.Lord Clement-Jones
"upon the card or token, or upon a system maintained by the licensee of the casino premises for such purpose".: My assurance is unequivocal. I did not finish quoting. Proposed new subsection (6) in Amendment No. 221 states,
"upon the card or token, or upon a system maintained by the licensee of the casino premises for such purpose".Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I hope that my noble friends on the Front Bench will listen very carefully to what the Minister said; it seems a sensible way forward.Lord Wade of Chorlton
: I thank the Minister for his reply, which is extremely welcome and tempting. However, given the strength of feeling expressed to me by so many beyond the House with regard to the matter, it is difficult for me to decide where we go. I am deeply concerned. I have been addressed by a number of different operators that have sought so clearly to persuade me that no ID at all is necessary—that somehow we will destroy their attempts at regeneration—that I am concerned that, if I withdraw the amendments, they will have their way.Baroness Buscombe
963: They will not. I shall demonstrate to the noble Baroness that the provisions are in the Bill. I am willing to examine all the other parts of the amendments, because I believe that they are in line with government policy. If by any chance anything is there that is not in the Bill. I undertake
963Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Is not photographic evidence one of the issues on which the Minister needs persuasion? As he said, we probably have only one day in Committee. Many of us would prefer not to vote in Committee, but he made it clear from the outset—when business was discussed—that he wanted demonstrations of the House's sentiment in certain areas. We accepted that from the start. The photographic aspect is of considerable concern and interest to those of us on these and other Benches.Lord Clement-Jones
: We have a second day of Committee on the list of forthcoming business. All right; there is reasonable scepticism about that. However, I assure the Committee that the concerns have been heard. I would not have said what I did unless I had fully taken account of what has been said.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Can the Minister confirm that we shall also have a Report stage?Lord Northbourne
: The intention of the Government is to pursue this Bill through both Houses of Parliament.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Then I cannot see what the Opposition's problem is. Why cannot we proceed in the normal manner, having the discussions between now and Report and, if necessary, bringing back the issue to a vote at Report stage?Lord Northbourne
: I am not sure whether I am entitled to intervene at this point. The fact is that we are in one of those peculiar situations called "wash up" where we shall not have a conventional Report stage. We shall have a formal Report stage and Third Reading, but it is highly unlikely that we shall have a two-day period when we can debate these issues.Lord Clement-Jones
: A decision must be made. I am hugely grateful for the assurances given by the Minister this evening. However, given the extraordinary position in which we find ourselves, we are unlikely to have other opportunities to show and confirm the strength of feeling among your Lordships on such issues. Therefore, I should like to test the opinion of the House.Baroness Buscombe
: I remind the Committee that if Amendment No. 11 is agreed to, I cannot call Amendment No.12 because of pre-emption.The Deputy Chairman of Committees (Lord Brougham and Vaux)
967966"(4) The Secretary of State and the Gambling Commission shall consult with HM Customs and Excise to ensure that gaming duty is levied as a percentage of gross gaming yield for all casinos and that profits bandings are set on a progressive basis through regulations."Page 4, line 5, leave out subsection (4) and insert—moved Amendment No. 11:
967966"(4) The Secretary of State and the Gambling Commission shall consult with HM Customs and Excise to ensure that gaming duty is levied as a percentage of gross gaming yield for all casinos and that profits bandings are set on a progressive basis through regulations."Page 4, line 5, leave out subsection (4) and insert—Baroness Buscombe
"consult with HM Customs and Excise",: I must congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Buscombe, on managing to get the amendment on the Marshalled List. The device of saying that the Secretary of State and the Gambling Commission shall,
"consult with HM Customs and Excise",Lord McIntosh of Haringey
968: I thank the Minister for his response. I hear what he says and I also accept with alacrity his congratulations on my ability somehow to talk money in your Lordships' House, which is important, because, in the Bill, we will be encouraging people to invest huge sums of money in this country.968Baroness Buscombe
Page 4, line 6, after "of" insert "casino"moved Amendment No. 12:
Page 4, line 6, after "of" insert "casino"Baroness Buscombe
: The next amendment is Amendment No. 13. I must advise the Committee that if Amendment No. 13 were to be agreed to, I would not be able to call Amendment No. 14.The Deputy Chairman of Committees
971WA 43.Official Report,"We understand Kerzner has entered into an agreement with Anschutz Entertainment Group to build and operate a hotel on land adjacent to the Dome site and to provide a regional casino at the Dome site if the Gambling Bill is enacted".—[WA 43.Official Report,"The planning permission [for any regional casino] is likely to be subject to a planning obligation".970"If this legislation gave rise to an increase in problem gambling then it would have failed and it would be bad legislation",969Official Report,"will bring risks that are untested in Great Britain".—[Official Report,Page 4, line 12, leave out paragraph (a).moved Amendment No. 13:
971WA 43.Official Report,"We understand Kerzner has entered into an agreement with Anschutz Entertainment Group to build and operate a hotel on land adjacent to the Dome site and to provide a regional casino at the Dome site if the Gambling Bill is enacted".—[WA 43.Official Report,"The planning permission [for any regional casino] is likely to be subject to a planning obligation".970"If this legislation gave rise to an increase in problem gambling then it would have failed and it would be bad legislation",969Official Report,"will bring risks that are untested in Great Britain".—[Official Report,Page 4, line 12, leave out paragraph (a).The Earl of Northesk
: The noble Earl has made some interesting points and asked some searching questions. I understood him to say that his intention, at this stage, was simply to obtain answers from the Minister. The change of description for the largest category of casino from a resort casino to a regional casino surprised many of us. The Minister may say that that term seemed more appropriate. A regional casino may, ultimately, mean a resort casino. However, I was surprised. Perhaps he will explain the matter further to the Committee.Viscount Falkland
973Official Report,"what matters is how they are defined. I believe it is recognised that we are taking that extremely gingerly".—[Official Report,"There is no difference in the names"—"of what we call regional casinos and what one could call destination casinos or resort casinos".972: Amendment No. 14 is in this group with the agreement of the noble Earl. In a probing discussion on regional casinos, it is sensible to discuss my amendment as well. Like the noble Earl, I tabled this probing amendment for discussion, although it
973Official Report,"what matters is how they are defined. I believe it is recognised that we are taking that extremely gingerly".—[Official Report,"There is no difference in the names"—"of what we call regional casinos and what one could call destination casinos or resort casinos".972Lord Greaves
974: I am sorry that I cannot support my noble friend Lord Northesk on this occasion because I disagree with the logic that he is putting forward in his amendment. I believe that the Government are right in their pilot of establishing regional casinos—whether they are regional, resort or destination means not a bit of difference because the size of these casinos is just an offering.974Viscount Ullswater
: I will be extremely brief. I recall how the definition of casinos by names as against by numbers developed at a certain point in our deliberations on the Joint Committee on Pre-Legislative Scrutiny. We had to choose names and I cannot for the life of me remember what name we chose: the important thing was that it should have a degree of logic.Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
975: I am grateful for what has been said because it has been thoughtful and I was really interested in some of the arguments. Of course. regional casinos have attracted attention and the Joint Committee that scrutinised the draft Bill, with a number of people here taking part in it, looked very carefully at the place of regional casinos. We have always believed that the development of the regional casinos should be done cautiously, and with appropriate safeguards. Regional casinos are a fundamental part of the casino package. We listened to what was said and came up with revised proposals with a cap on regional casinos to make sure that these new leisure destinations are carefully tested.975Lord McIntosh of Haringey
Hansard,: I will have to make sure when I read Hansard,The Earl of Northesk
976: I am sorry if I have misunderstood, but I thought the noble Earl was asking me to prejudge what they said.976Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I want to press the Minister on two issues. First, on the contribution by local authorities, is it not the case that any planning application of any significant size, from 10 houses upwards and perhaps some smaller than that, involves planning obligations under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act or in other ways, by which developers pay money to the local authority for certain defined purposes? There is no doubt whatever that authorities which want to have big casinos in their areas are thinking on those terms. There is no point in pretending that is not the case; it is how the planning system now works. If you are giving planning permission for an entertainment, industrial or residential purpose, or for anything else, you expect contributions from the developers towards other local facilities, road improvements, contributions to bus services or whatever else. That is just a fact of life, and it will certainly be a fact of life on planning applications for casinos.Lord Greaves
: My knowledge of these things is very out of date, as I have not been a chairman of a planning committee for nearly 40 years. But yes, Section 106, as I understand it, does exactly what the noble Lord, Lord Greaves, described—and yes, if there is an area in which there is a premises licence available, as identified by the advisory panel, and if there is more than one applicant with a casino operator's licence as granted by the Gambling Commission, the local authority will choose between those applicants. It will choose on the basis of whoever offers the best benefits to the local area. That seems to me exactly as it should be.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: The local authority will be giving a premises licence and may well be choosing; between two or three or 25 people bidding. After that, there will have to be an application for planning permission. The inter-relationship between the two is not very clear at all and will be very muddled.Lord Greaves
: They will happen at the same time and whichever applicant wins must get both a premises licence and planning permission. But they are different in the sense that the premises licence in these circumstances is competitive. However good a lot of applications are, only one person can get one premises licence. Planning permission, on the other hand, is granted on the merits of the case and is not competitive. In educational terms, I believe, one would say that it is norm referenced rather than criterion referenced.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I thank the Minister for his characteristically clear and eloquent response. I recognise that some of my questions had a chicken-and-egg character. Nevertheless, I thank him for the answers that he has been able to give. I am grateful, too, for the kind words of the noble Viscount, Lord Falkland, and the noble Lord, Lord Greaves.The Earl of Northesk
980979978Page 4, line 13, leave out paragraph (b).moved Amendment No. 15:
980979978Page 4, line 13, leave out paragraph (b).Baroness Buscombe
: I briefly wanted to register interest in, if not total support for, what are ingenious proposals. It is unfortunate that we have only a day in Committee, and we probably do not have many further stages of the Bill, to tease out Amendment No. 245, which is extremely interesting. It has merit in the way that it simplifies the structure of the Bill.Lord Clement-Jones
981: This is a very important series of amendments. My noble friend Lady Buscombe has
981Viscount Ullswater
: One thing that everyone from all parts of the Committee has had in common is a desire to get the Bill through if we can, for the reasons that we all know and that do not need repeating now. I have absolutely no interest in the casino industry, but it seems to me that the chances of getting the Bill on to the statute book without what you might call an agreement with the existing British casino industry are very remote. We are all aware that up to date—from 16 December until now—it has been extremely unhappy, and that unhappiness has pervaded the past few weeks on the Bill.Lord Mancroft
: I must start with a comment on what the noble Lord, Lord Mancroft, said. I have huge respect for the British casino industry and the four major firms that dominate it. They have run for many years honest and crime-free casinos that have not had any particular record of causing problem gambling. They have substantial financial security. I yield to no one in my respect for them. However, it should not be said that we need their agreement to get legislation through Parliament, which is rather what he implied.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I obviously did not choose my words carefully, but this is a large and complex Bill. Apart from anything else, it is about reforming and modernising an industry. If you are doing that, it is usually a good idea to try to carry that industry with you. The past few months of the passage of the Bill have been somewhat sour. Even before the Bill arrived, the discussion had been going on for five years. It is a pity that we have that situation; it would be nice to get back on to a set of rails. Not everyone will agree with everything, of course—that will never be the case—but the level of disagreement that there was following 16 December undoubtedly ruined the atmosphere.Lord Mancroft
983: I have to be concerned with policy rather than atmosphere. Having said that, of course we have taken very seriously the concerns expressed by the British casino industry. We have seen members of the industry on every occasion that they have asked to see us; we have read their advertisements with great interest and increasing incredulity; and we have heard them say, as has been said today, that the Bill treats them unfairly and puts existing casinos at a competitive disadvantage. We think that those concerns have been, at the very least, overstated, but we recognise that there is an issue here which these amendments are intended to address. However, I have to say that I am unable to support them. I want to explain why and I shall go on to explain to the Committee what we see as a better approach to the issue.983Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I apologise to the Minister for interrupting. He is giving a full and helpful reply. Can he confirm, for the assistance of all your Lordships, when he sees the Bill coming into force? That is important in relation to this point.Baroness Buscombe
986985: We have a number of preparatory steps to make and there will be different commencement times for different parts of the Bill. It will certainly not be less than 18 months from now.986985Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Will the Minister confirm that there is no restriction on who applies for the eight, eight and eight, so that all UK companies, existing companies and new companies from around the world can apply?Lord Wade of Chorlton
: Yes, of course, we have said that all along. We said it twice in the Statement on 16 December, although the British Casino Association advertisements claim that it was excluded. We said it twice in that Statement. That has always been the case, and I have made it clear, that those casinos have a very strong case for doing well, because they know the markets; they have the experience; they have the staff; and they certainly have the ability to raise the money for casinos of that kind. I think that they will have a very good business opportunity and they would be very unwise to throw that away by endangering the passage of the Bill.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Just for clarification, can an existing casino apply to become a new casino?Viscount Ullswater
: Yes. If there is an existing casino in an area identified by the advisory panel as, let us say, the location for a small casino, an existing casino could apply to become a small casino under the new legislation.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
Hansard: I will read HansardLord Clement-Jones
"It may be that the race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong—but that is the way to bet".: The first three pages of Clause 346 contain a long list of definitions. The Minister was searching for a phrase that could convey a high degree of probability with language taken from the betting field. I offer him "a racing certainty", but, more colourfully, I offer him the great words of Damon Runyon:
"It may be that the race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong—but that is the way to bet".Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
: I will seek to avoid gambling analogies as fiercely as I do sporting analogies, because I do not understand them.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
987: I made clear on Second Reading my understanding that the existing casino industry will be able to apply for the new licences. It is
987Baroness Buscombe
: That cannot be the case. Between Royal Assent and the commencement of this part of the Bill, they will have the opportunity to open new casinos under the 1968 Act. When the Bill comes into force, they will have the advantage of the abolition of 24-hour membership requirements and the advertising ban. I cannot see how they are being "frozen".Lord McIntosh of Haringey
988: They will have the opportunity of opening casinos between now and the enactment of this Bill. But the Minister confirmed to me that that may be 18 months from now. There is a limited ability for most clubs to grow in current premises, and moving the entire British estate to new premises would take years. It takes time to process the introduction of new premises. I cannot see that there would be a mass proliferation under the wire between now and the introduction of the new legislation.988Baroness Buscombe
"(d) sub-small casinos previously licensed under the Gaming Act 1968 (c. 65)"Page 4, line 15, leave out paragraph (d) and insert—moved Amendment No. 17:
"(d) sub-small casinos previously licensed under the Gaming Act 1968 (c. 65)"Page 4, line 15, leave out paragraph (d) and insert—Baroness Buscombe
: Amendment No. 233 is mine.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
989Hansard.: I am so sorry. I need a drink. I hope that will not appear in 989Hansard.Baroness Buscombe
991990: The Committee will forgive me if I do not repeat my encomiums to the British casino industry. I think they are well understood. Why Members of the Committee should laugh, I do not know.991990Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: Perhaps I may make a general point. On the evidence that we took in the Scrutiny Committee, it is clear that the eight regional casinos will not really be casinos. They will be very large hotels with a very wide range of leisure facilities within them. A relatively small part of those very large facilities will be a casino.Lord Wade of Chorlton
992: I am grateful for that. I wish that we had had time to reconvene the Pre-legislative Scrutiny Committee to consider these matters. Noble Lords are happy with that idea; they must have really enjoyed themselves. I do not believe
992Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I probably have not made myself clear. It is not the non-gaming facilities that I want to see in the smaller casinos but the ability to cope with the very high rollers. The high rollers will not go to the big regional casinos, where there are category A machines and opportunities for much higher levels of gambling; they will be more likely to go to the smaller-sized casinos.Lord Wade of Chorlton
: That is way beyond my level of expertise. I would have thought they would be more likely to stay at the existing casinos in Mayfair.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I think the high rollers will play baccarat and blackjack and other games and not the machines.Lord Clement-Jones
Hansard,: I entirely agree with the noble Lord, Lord Wade, on the proposed regional casinos. I visited Las Vegas and I do not remember taking part in any betting. I was there for the leisure facilities and to see the amazing spectacle. When I have, on rare occasions, visited smaller casinos where the high rollers play, I have seen that the focus is on gambling. It seems extraordinary that we are putting category A machines in the huge regional casinos and minimising the different gambling opportunities within the smaller casinos.Hansard,Baroness Buscombe
Page 4, line 16, leave out "may" and insert "shall"had given notice of her intention to move Amendment No. 18:
Page 4, line 16, leave out "may" and insert "shall"Baroness Buscombe
fait accompli.994"There is somewhat of an impasse in negotiations with DCMS. Unless the Government makes concessions in line with our substantial recommendations, we feel that the most prudent next course of action would be to remove the casino sections from the legislation altogether. The Government and the casino industry needs more time to consider the best way forward and it has become increasingly apparent that this will not be possible until after the General Election".: I rise to oppose the Question that Clause 7 stand part of the Bill. That heads a long group of amendments in my name including Amendments Nos. 102 and 107, whether Clauses 149 and 164 stand part, Amendments Nos. 224 and 234, and whether Schedule 9 stands part. It should also include Amendments Nos. 176A and 176B, which I apologise got delayed a day in their circulation in the supplementary list because for some reason the clause and line numbers that I submitted had gone through some sort of random number generator before they got to the Public Bill Office and they were therefore gibberish. They can be taken as discussed.fait accompli.994"There is somewhat of an impasse in negotiations with DCMS. Unless the Government makes concessions in line with our substantial recommendations, we feel that the most prudent next course of action would be to remove the casino sections from the legislation altogether. The Government and the casino industry needs more time to consider the best way forward and it has become increasingly apparent that this will not be possible until after the General Election".Lord Greaves
995: I hesitate to interrupt the noble Lord, but did he find nothing in the report of the Joint Scrutiny Committee of any use at all in answering some of the questions that he says have not even been looked at? The Joint Scrutiny Committee,
995Lord Faulkner of Worcester
: If I said that I had read every word of that report, I would not be telling the truth, but I have read a great deal of it. I have certainly gone through it all. At Second Reading, I complimented the committee on its work because the Bill as a whole is now very much better than it would have been had that process not taken place. I made that absolutely clear. I believe that the Bill as a whole, apart from the casino provisions, is actually a good Bill that deserves to be passed by this House. My answer to the noble Lord is that the questions that I am raising have not been answered.Lord Greaves
: The noble Lord has referred to the NERA report. Is he able to tell the Committee, because NERA cannot or refuse to, who commissioned that report? Then we would be able to judge the evidence it put before this Committee more fairly than we can when it suppresses that fact.Lord Lipsey
996: No, I cannot tell the noble Lord, Lord Lipsey, that. It is a question I asked myself as I read the report, but it was just one of the large number of items in piles of stuff that came through the computer and through the post which I read with interest. I have a right to consider arguments from people whoever commissions them and whoever produces them, and that particular argument seems a very sensible one.996Lord Greaves
997: The noble Lord, Lord Greaves, has made a series of thoughtful and interesting speeches in the course of our Committee today, and the speech he has just made is no less thoughtful and interesting. I ought to put on record from the Front Benches that we do not agree with his view about the continuation of Clause 7, as I made clear on Second Reading.997Lord Clement-Jones
: I am glad that the noble Lord, Lord Greaves, said that this was a probing amendment, because I certainly cannot agree with it. The idea that you can suddenly remove the casino portion from this important Bill at this moment and expect suddenly to be able to resurrect it as a single item after the election is—well, the noble Lord has his own views about it, but I certainly would not propose that it should be done.Viscount Ullswater
998: If there is one thing that came across to me when meeting the various casino owners over the past few months is that they are very smart businessmen. To build a big leisure casino, you have to commit something like $0.5 billion if not more—say £300,000 or £400,000 minimum—to create it. That decision is not going to be taken by anybody unless they are very confident that it is going to work and that they are going to have the infrastructure around it necessary to make it a success. For such an investment, something like 2.5 or 3 million people will need to visit the premises to make it pay; most of them will pay for the leisure facilities rather than the gambling, and the gambling will put the cream on the cake and make the whole thing possible.998Lord Wade of Chorlton
999: I listened very carefully to the noble Lord, Lord Greaves, and well understand the point that he is making, which is a principled case against having casinos in the Bill at all. I assume that what he means is that there should he no change in the casino law. It does not really matter what the amendments say; clearly they could be sorted out afterwards if there were general support for them. But I take it that he means to leave casino law as it is at the moment rather than to abolish casinos altogether; he is nodding, so I believe that must be right.999Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: I beg to move that the House do now resume.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure. In moving the Motion, I indicate to the House that we will continue the consideration on the Prevention of Terrorism Bill at about 10 o'clock. We do not know the precise time: it will be displayed on the indicator.Lord Davies of Oldham
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, could I ask the noble and learned Lord—Lord Campbell of Alloway
: My Lords, the Government are trying to have it both ways. I was in the other place yesterday, when I heard people on the government Front Bench repeat the argument that no sunset clause was needed at all and in the same breath say that if there were to be a sunset clause, the end of November would be too soon. As far as I can see, this Bill was put together in about two months. It is precisely because it was so hurried— although I understand the reasons for that—and precisely because it has such huge constitutional import, that we are saying that a total review is necessary and therefore a sunset clause is necessary.Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: My Lords, I welcome the Minister's confirmation that the Northern Way documents do not refer to a specific number of houses which may be demolished in the north of England. However, last year, the Deputy Prime Minister announced that he wanted to see 400,000 such houses demolished. Can the Minister confirm that that figure no longer applies but has been superseded by the documents and that there is no specific target of terraced houses in the north of England that the Government want to knock down?Lord Greaves
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor relies on the judgment of Lord Justice Laws in the case of A (No. 2), as a ground for supporting reasonable suspicion in relation to non-derogating orders. How does that square with the Government's acceptance that balance of probability is the appropriate test for derogating orders? It does not make sense. Everybody accepts that derogating orders are more serious, but why should the same burden of proof not apply?Lord Lloyd of Berwick
888: My Lords, I am glad again to follow the noble Baroness as I did a day or so ago, and again find myself in complete agreement with everything she has said. This House has a limited constitutional right to delay non-money Bills. It is said that the Bill before us could not be delayed because of the 14 March deadline, but I have never accepted that there was the urgency in this matter that others seem to have accepted. There is, so far as I know, no evidence that the danger today is any greater than it was in 2001—if anything, it is slightly less and, since then, this sort of legislation has not been applied to British citizens. The existing legislation has been adequate to protect us.888Lord Lloyd of Berwick
"Mankind will not be reasoned out of the feelings of humanity".: My Lords, I hope that if I say something now it may at least serve to reduce the temperature a little. For my part, I hope that we shall stand firm on the sunset clause. The only argument that I have heard against it is that it would send out the so-called wrong message. That is an argument in which I have never believed. It has absolutely no strength in this context."Mankind will not be reasoned out of the feelings of humanity".Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness—Lord Young of Norwood Green
Official Report,899"I believe that it would be possible to provide perhaps for renewal, which would be more realistic, and then an absolute sunset clause, to allow the Bill to be enacted—as I think there is a
Official Report,899: My Lords, does the Minister agree that the Government responded to a request from the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman? In our previous debate, she said:
Official Report,899"I believe that it would be possible to provide perhaps for renewal, which would be more realistic, and then an absolute sunset clause, to allow the Bill to be enacted—as I think there is a
Official Report,899Lord Young of Norwood Green
: My Lords, we are all familiar by now with the short interregnum as we send these proceedings and our decisions back to the democratic House, to see what judgment they make on behalf of their constituents and the national interest. I assume that as soon as the business returns here, we shall put an announcement on the Annunciator in the normal way. It is unpredictable quite how long it will take, of course. I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure.Lord Grocott
1058[The Sitting was suspended from 1.11 to 6.30 p.m.]: My Lords, if it is helpful, as I believe it has been, to give indications of time, I shall do so. As the House knows, we will once again send the Bill back to the representatives of the British people to hear their judgment on our deliberations. That will take around five hours, so the House will resume not earlier than six o'clock. I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure.1058[The Sitting was suspended from 1.11 to 6.30 p.m.]Lord Grocott
: My Lords, it may help the House if I repeat what 1 said a few hours ago. It takes a minimum of four hours to go through the next round, for the papers to be dealt with and sent to the other end. Those in the other place will then make their decision and the Bill will return to this House. We shall not resume before 10.30 a.m. It will not be sooner than 10.30, but if it is later, messages will be put on the annunciator.Lord Grocott
[The Sitting was suspended from 7 to 7.30 p.m.]1066: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn during pleasure for half an hour, pending Royal Assent, until 7.30.[The Sitting was suspended from 7 to 7.30 p.m.]1066Lord Grocott
(Lord Grocott.)The Baroness Walmsley—To ask Her Majesty's Government what progress has been made on the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child Report 2002.—(Lord Grocott.): My Lords, now that the excitement of that result has subsided, I beg to move the first Motion standing on the Order Paper in the name of the Leader of the House.(Lord Grocott.)The Baroness Walmsley—To ask Her Majesty's Government what progress has been made on the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child Report 2002.—(Lord Grocott.)Lord Grocott
(Lord Grocott.): My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing on the Order Paper in the name of the Leader of the House.(Lord Grocott.)Lord Grocott
(Lord Grocott.): My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing on the Order Paper in the name of my noble friend Lord McIntosh of Haringey.(Lord Grocott.)Lord Grocott
: My Lords, I am surprised that the noble Lord is not aware of the rule of the International Olympic Committee that one bid city does not comment on a rival bid while the process is going on. So I do not intend to do that.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I am rather too busy with my obligations in the House to go to Heathrow very often. The House should recognise that Heathrow is the busiest airport in the world, and it will maintain that position over the next decade. Of course it is important that the modernisation should take place, although there are one or two modern airports that have had significant difficulties with their construction. Heathrow is an important link in British travel plans. Reverting again to the original Question, as far as concerns the Olympic Games, Heathrow will be a leading airport in 2012.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, that is an important consideration, but the British Airports Authority has extensive plans for Heathrow. In addition to the construction of Terminal 5, to which I just referred, there is massive investment in Terminal 3 to enable it to take the new large aircraft, the A380, and substantial improvements to Terminals 1 and 2. Some £8 billion will be spent over the next decade. There is a great deal of investment in Heathrow. I agree with the noble Lord that of course it could do with improvement, but certainly by the time of the Olympic Games Heathrow will be well equipped to cope with the traffic.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, Heathrow Airport is one of the many positive selling points in London's bid to host the 2012 Olympic Games. The bid document makes it clear that Heathrow is the best connected airport in the world and that it has ample capacity to cope with the arrival of the Olympic family. It will be further enhanced with the opening of the new state-of-the-art Terminal 5 in 2008.Lord Davies of Oldham
840: My Lords, certainly Stansted plays a part in the bid as regards the transport arrangements because it is well connected with east
840Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, for every passenger in the air, there are many hundreds on the ground with different interests as far as concerns noise.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, the House knows that the timetable for Crossrail is 2014, so it is not related to the Olympic bid. Other improvements to transport are destined to be in play by 2012, of which the most significant is being able to transport passengers from King's Cross St Pancras to the Olympic site in seven minutes through the "javelin" route, which will be using the developed Channel Tunnel rail link.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, it may be thought that I can resist temptation on only one occasion. I can do it twice—I am not going to comment.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, we have dealt with this point on a number of occasions, arid the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, has asked the same question on a number of occasions. I shall give the answer again.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
860859: My Lords, in relation to these cases and in the terms that we are putting the measure into the Bill, our view of the law is that proportionality and whether it is a legitimate aim is something that the courts could consider. But I make it clear that that is what the Government intend by this wording.860859Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)862861: My Lords, we are doing this because we are seeking to strike a balance between the rights of the suspect and the danger to the public. If you deprive somebody of their liberty, which is the effect of a derogating control order, then we accept that there needs to be a high test. The advice we are currently receiving is that we do not need to do that in the case of anybody. In those circumstances, we are prepared to accept a high test, because that is the advice we are getting from the security services.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)862861Lord Falconer of Thoroton
857856: My Lords, the usual channels have proposed that, for the convenience of the House, the amendments should be grouped by topic and that a single Motion should be moved on each group of amendments. Therefore, I beg
857856The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, I am sorry to stop the noble Lord but perhaps I may describe what has happened and then take interventions. As the House will know, the Government's view remains that it is most appropriate for these orders to be made by the Secretary of State. But, to ensure that in the vast majority of cases there is judicial involvement before the order is made, we have in effect adopted the third way, or something very similar to it, proposed by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Donaldson of Lymington. In effect, it was that, while the Secretary of State makes the orders, he can do so only with the leave of the court. We think that that is the right approach.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
858: My Lords, the Government have said that in the vast majority of cases the judge will be involved before the order is made. That is the effect of the change. The noble Lord is right that the test for judicial scrutiny is judicial review, but that test for judicial scrutiny will involve
858Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I genuinely do not want to inflame the situation in any way. I cannot start apologising for every statement made. The situation would become a ridiculous to and fro. Perhaps noble Lords heard what some people said this morning about me on the radio. It was absolutely outrageous. I am bearing it with as much equanimity as I can muster. Keep on bashing me and let us get on with the detail of the Bill.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
880: My Lords, we could have an inquest about what has been said in the House
880Lord Falconer of Thoroton
Lord Falconer of Thoroton.878: My Lords, I beg to move Motion B, which will be found on page 19 of the Marshalled List, that this House do not insist on its Amendment No. 6 to which the Commons have disagreed for their reason numbered 6A. This amendment deals with the amendment tabled by the noble Lady, Lady Saltoun of Abernethy, on the previous occasion.Lord Falconer of Thoroton.878Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, no, we are not going to accept the amendment in the name of the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman. No, we are not going to accept the sunset clause. We believe that an annual renewal provision, which allows both Houses of Parliament every year to debate and not to approve the Bill, is an appropriate way to deal with it. We believe that it sends out the wrong signal to say that this is temporary legislation and we believe that, by putting in a sunset clause, the consequence would be that one would simply have these debates again in a very short period.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, regarding the first question, I do not say that it easy for the mistake to be made that a non-derogator becomes a derogator. I accept that it is possible. The consequence of that under the current Bill would be that the non-derogator would be a nullity, because there would not be a derogation from the ECHR and I accept that that is the position.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Wedderburn, is absolutely right. It was the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hoffmann, not the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hope. I apologise to the House, to the noble Lord, Lord Wedderburn, but most of all to the noble and learned Lords, Lord Hope and Lord Hoffmann, in that respect. However, I respectfully submit that the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hoffmann, is saying that the courts traditionally would not approach a decision about what order to make on the basis of a burden of proof issue. The burden of proof issue is about determining facts. This matter is about where the risk lies and the appropriate course to be taken to deal with the risk.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
870: My Lords, there were three points there. First, regarding the burden of proof, no one during the debate has addressed the point put by Lord Justice Laws. He made it absolutely clear that if you are seeking to assess risk, introducing "balance of probabilities" as the test would frustrate the policy. That is also the view of the security services. Yes, points can be made about the derogating orders, which it is said at the moment are not necessary. Yes—absolutely right—we are making it very difficult for ourselves to obtain a derogating order due to the intrusion on the freedom of the individual concerned.
870Lord Falconer of Thoroton
871: My Lords, there are two points in relation to that. First, this issue was debated in some considerable detail in the other place on the previous occasion. Secondly, the way that our system works is that, while we in this place should appropriately ask the other place to consider issues, to think again, as we have done in relation to two out of three of the issues here, ultimately, if important points of principle remain after proper consideration—and I believe that there has been proper consideration—the way that we normally operate is that we give way to the other place.871Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons reasons and amendments be considered forthwith.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons reasons and amendments be considered forthwith.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Hansard,1059Hansardrose to move. That this House do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1A and 1B to Lords Amendment No. 1; do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 37Q, 37S, 37T and 37Y in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8; do not insist on its insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 37A to 37C and 37E to 37O and 37X in lieu of those Lords amendments; and do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 17H to 17M to the words restored to the Bill by the Commons insistence on their disagreement to Lords Amendment No. 17.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Hansard,1059HansardLord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I can confirm that I gave that assurance. Indeed, the right honourable Mr Michael Howard told the world at 5.15 p.m. that I had privately given such an assurance at 4.15 p.m. to the noble Lord, Lord Strathclyde—private being a rather short-lived assurance on this occasion.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, for some reason it never occurred to anybody that we should ask for such an undertaking.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1063Hansard: My Lords, at the 1063HansardLord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I am not saying that there is no alternative, I am saying that your view has changed.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1018 rose to move, That this House do not insist on Amendments Nos. 38, 39 and 40 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement, do agree with the Commons in
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1018Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1012rose to move, That this House do not insist on its Amendments Nos, 27, 31 and 32 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement, and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 27C and 27D in lieu thereof.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1012Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)rose to move, That this House do not insist on its Amendment No. 33D, but do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33A to 33C in lieu thereof.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1008: My Lords, I hear "yeses". Is that not the issue with which we are confronted? Ultimately, a decision must be made and I respectfully suggest to the House that we must bow to the view of the Commons, because it is the prime
1008Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: No, no, no, my Lords. At the time that the noble Lord, Lord Baker, locked up 12 people there was no process that could remotely be described as fair. Indeed, the process was then struck down by the European Court. So it is absolutely ridiculous to describe that process as being fair.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: No, my Lords, they have not. However, they have said that they believe the control orders we are proposing are necessary to protect national security. In the light of that, we take the view that the right course is to put the orders on the statute book, but not do so with a self-destruct mechanism after 12 months. There is the choice.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1009: My Lords, this House suggested pre-judicial scrutiny before a non-derogating order was made, and the House of Commons accepted that. This House suggested certification to ensure that prosecution was properly considered before an order was made, and the other House accepted it. This House suggested different provisions in relation to the rules. The Commons accepted that as well. The noble Earl, Lord Ferrers, is saying "There is one more thing we want, namely a sunset clause". The House of Commons has considered that on two separate occasions, and has said no.
1009Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1025: My Lords, at the request of this House, we introduced judicial scrutiny before almost all the orders were made. The Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats support the concept of control orders, yet they block the Bill.1025Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1021: Sunset clause, my Lords. It will soon be sunrise!(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1021Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons reasons and amendments be considered forthwith.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1020rose to move, That this House do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1A and 1B to Lords Amendment No. 1; do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 37Q to 37T in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8 to which the Commons have disagreed; do not insist on its insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 37A to 37C and 37E to 370 in lieu of those Lords Amendments; do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 17H to 17M to the words restored to the Bill by the Commons insistence on their disagreement to Lords Amendment No. 17; and do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 37V in lieu.1020Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, the points made by the noble Lord—Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1007: My Lords, when people come to this place, they take different views. I cannot
1007Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1002: My Lords, it would not be impossible for the Government to do that. But the critical point is that we have made a whole range of very significant concessions on the basis of the detail of this. The idea that an artificial deadline imposed by this House is the right way to deal with the fight against terrorism is—with the greatest respect to every Member of the House, who I have absolutely no doubt has at heart the safety of the nation—wrong. The right way to deal with it is to put before both Houses of Parliament our proposal on fighting terrorism, to listen to what is said about how it may best be amended and then to amend it, which is what we have done. Ultimately, we do need to make decisions as a government about what is the best way to fight terrorism. Of course, each House must put before us its individual views about the best way to do it, but ultimately we must put a proposal, we must address the Commons about it, and it must make a decision on it.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1002Lord Falconer of Thoroton
 rose to move, That this House do not insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1 A and 1B to Lords Amendment No. 1; do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 37Q to 37T in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8 to which the Commons have disagreed; do not insist on their insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 37A to 370 in lieu of those Lords Amendments; and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 17H to 17M to the words restored to the Bill by the Commons insistence on their disagreement to Lords Amendment No. 17.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, may I remind the noble Baroness that when she started this debate she said that both these matters would be dealt with in one vote? She expressly said so herself.Viscount Bledisloe
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord has presented us with a package of three separate points. If we agree with him on some of them, but disagree with him on others, we have to decide which way to compromise. It would be an enormous help to us to know whether we were doing this in relation to a Bill which is going to become an Act of Parliament for an indefinite period or become an Act of Parliament which is going to come to an end and be totally reconsidered within a reasonable time. Could the noble and learned Lord enlighten us as to whether he is going accept Amendment No. 33D, in the name of the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman? If he is, for my part, I would find it much easier to accept a number of his other propositions, even if they produced a Bill which was not wholly satisfactory.Viscount Bledisloe
869: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor mentioned three points in support of his amendment from another place. The first was the balance of probabilities and the general question of the burden of proof test. The second was the role that the prosecutorial authorities ought to play in control orders. The third was the judicialisatiton of the non-derogating procedure. I should like to deal with each one of those.869Lord Kingsland
Lord Kingsland.884883: moved, as an amendment to Motion C, Amendment Cl:Lord Kingsland.884883Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. We have had a debate on both Motion C and Motion D. In my very humble submission, I think it is appropriate now for the noble Baroness to sum up that debate in relation to both Motions so that we do not have to return to the issue on Motion D after we have voted on Motion C.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her reply. We have had a debate about Motions C and D, and shall now vote, successively, on amendments to them. Motion C concerns the Privy Council amendment, and the first vote will be on it if we press our amendment from this Dispatch Box. I shall not attempt to summarise the debate on the issue; it would be impertinent of me to do so. The case for the amendment has been made devastatingly throughout your Lordships' House.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I shall give way to the noble Baroness so that she can indicate whether she will do so.Lord Kingsland
had given notice of his intention to move Amendment D1, as an amendment to the Motion that the House do not insist on its Amendment No. 33, but do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33A to 33C in lieu thereof, to leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on its Amendment No. 33 and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33A to 33C in lieu thereof".Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, when the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, moves her amendment on the sunset clause, I shall withdraw my amendment in favour of the noble Baroness's. I am delighted at the weight the noble Baroness's decision will give to the vote on the sunset clause, when we reach it. She is not only a distinguished former Front-Bencher from the government side but also, of course, a senior Privy Counsellor; and, in my submission, that adds. I repeat, great weight to her support for the principle of the sunset clause.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords—Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, the substance of the Motion concerns three matters, none of which was mentioned by the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor in his opening remarks— these are the judicialisation of non-derogating orders, the balance of probabilities and the role of the DPP. On none of them have the Government given any ground at all, despite the plain fact that the judicial role is totally excluded from most of the manner in which non-derogating control orders are made.Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)rose to move, as an amendment to Motion B, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on Lords Amendments Nos. 27, 31 and 32; do insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 27C and 27D in lieu thereof; and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 32D in lieu".(Lord Kingsland.)Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, that is a big change. I say to the Government, where is yours?Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, on the substance of this matter, we are in complete harmony with the Liberal Democrats. Without a balance-of-probabilities test, many innocent people will be incarcerated. Without a role for the Director of Public Prosecutions, many people will go unprosecuted. Without a judicial process for non-derogating control orders, a politician can continue—as the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, said—to make control orders on the basis of secret evidence, virtually unsupervised. On all those crucial issues, the Government have moved not an inch.Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)1015rose to move Amendment C1, as an amendment to Motion C, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on its Amendment No. 33D and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33A to 33C in lieu thereof."
(Lord Kingsland.)1015Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)rose to move, as an amendment to Motion B, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on Lords Amendments 27, 31 and 32 and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 27C and 27D in lieu thereof".(Lord Kingsland.)Lord Kingsland
Hansard,1062: My Lords, in some ways I think that the reply of the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor is academic, because after the general election we will be in charge of these affairs. And I can give an undertaking to your Lordships' House that we will stick to the timetable and the scope of the Bill.Hansard,1062Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)rose to move, as an amendment to Motion C, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on its Amendment No. 33D and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33C, 33F and 33G in lieu thereof."(Lord Kingsland.)Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I thank noble Lords for standing firm throughout the past 24 hours, in the face of unparalleled pressure, to support what I consider to be the highest principles in our constitution. The effect of that has been demonstrated by the government overtures this afternoon, which, we find, satisfy all our requirements for the sunset clause.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, it is our earnest wish that this Bill finds its way on to the statute book.Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)rose to move, as an amendment to Motion C, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on its Amendment No. 33D and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33C, 33G, 33I and 33J in lieu thereof.(Lord Kingsland.)Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, would my noble friend also agree that, for much of the period until 30 November the House is in recess? This is not a job only for civil servants. It is a job for Members of Parliament; Members of this House. Am I right about that?Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, I had not considered the issue of St Andrew's Day at all until now, but I am persuaded that we should not adopt the idea that 30 November is sacrosanct. For all the reasons adduced by my noble friend Lady Hayman, it is appropriate that we consider 31 March. For that reason, we should have an adequate opportunity to consider the effect of the Bill. I am very chary about certain aspects of it, but I may be wrong. But it is absolutely vital that at least we have a report from the review committee before us and can consider the effect of the position taken by people outside the Houses of Parliament.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, is not house price inflation the biggest spur to house restoration and rehabilitation?Lord Campbell-Savours
: My Lords, as a humble Back-Bencher from the Cross Benches who has listened to the debate in both this House and looking down from the Gallery in the other, I am amazed that there is still such a political battle on issues on which we all agree. The only issue that could solve the problem is the sunset clause. Whatever the faults, benefits or good qualities of the legislation, all the sunset clause asks is the chance to have a look at it again in a year's time. Surely we can agree among grown-up people at this time of night that that is sensible.Lord Cobbold
: My Lords, the Government are concerned that children should be taught by teachers with the right qualities and skills. We require initial teacher training providers to satisfy themselves that trainees entering undergraduate courses for teacher training have a capability to meet the standards required for the award of qualified teacher status. Higher education providers set and monitor their own academic requirements for entry to undergraduate teacher training courses, as they do for all other degree courses.Lord Triesman
841: My Lords, the first thing to do is to put this into context. Teaching is a fully professionally qualified occupation. Approximately 15 per cent of teachers start their career as undergraduates, whereas the remainder go through postgraduate qualification systems. I have the data for 2002–03, the most recent year for which figures are fully available, and it is true that those entering undergraduate teacher training courses had lower average attainment in pre-HE qualifications than those who were entering other degree courses. It is equally significant that by the time they graduated, their pattern of graduation qualifications, 2:1s and 2:2s and so on, were absolutely comparable with people graduating from other
841Lord Triesman
: My Lords, I am not aware of any plan to phase them out, although the statistics show that the postgraduate certificate is the major route. As I have said, 85 per cent, and increasing, enter that way. That means that people coming in already have a first degree in a specialist subject. The noble Lord, Lord Pearson, addressed that point. Even so, those teaching in primary schools, where they will on average be teaching around nine subjects, cannot have A-levels or a specialist degree in nine subjects. Yet, we also want people with excellent ability in primary education.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the Ofsted reports have shown a steady improvement in the attainment of children, particularly in primary school, who are taught by the very teachers to whom the noble Baroness refers. It is really important to look attentively to the data. Let me look at them in relation to maths, one of the subjects mentioned. Although 24 per cent of teachers who taught some maths did not have a post-A-level qualification in maths in 2002, 88 per cent of all maths courses were taught by teachers who had such a qualification. Simply reading the raw data does not provide the picture that we need to study.Lord Triesman
842: My Lords, we want people with the best attainment levels entering teaching, because it is so vital. Any slippage in one sense would be a cause of concern. However, I ask the House to reflect a little on the history of how people have entered teaching. Directly after the war, a very large number of people entered teaching without any formal qualification, but
842Lord Triesman
: My Lords—Lord Ackner
872: My Lords, can the noble and learned Lord assist me on just two matters? Regarding non-derogation orders, it was generally accepted that it would be very easy for a combination of two or more to result in a loss of liberty. How will he deal with that?
872Lord Ackner
: My Lords, it may be that we have come to the moment when we should make a decision on this matter.Lord Thomas of Gresford
(Lord Thomas of Gresford.)868867: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness for her intervention. She may have missed what I said at the very beginning, which was that we accept the principle of control orders, and even, in a national emergency, of a derogating control order. The difference between us is whether the order should be made by the Secretary of State or whether it should go to the court for a judge to make the decision. The latter is the tradition of this country, and part of its liberties that we seek to defend. Why it should be a "watering down" for a judge to take that decision rather than the Secretary of State, I simply do not
(Lord Thomas of Gresford.)868867Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, certainly he has to. The point that I sought to make a moment ago is that it is inconceivable that a person against whom a control order had been made as proposed in the original Bill would not have sought to test it in the courts as soon as he possibly could.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I feel that we should bring this debate to a close. I want to say only a brief word on the standard of proof. It seems to me that the Government risk real injustice when they seek to act on reasonable suspicion. It almost inevitably follows that people will have restrictions on their liberty when they are innocent. I ask your Lordships to recall the problems that we have had in Northern Ireland as a result of miscarriages of justice that have taken place on the mainland of England when the standard of proof was "beyond reasonable doubt" but nevertheless there were miscarriages of justice.Lord Thomas of Gresford
moved, as an amendment to Motion A, Amendment Al:Lord Thomas of Gresford
866: My Lords, I say that because it is simply what was in the Bill before. The difference is that before it was the person who was the subject of the control order who had to go to the court
866Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Desai, said that "history is hooey". What does that say for the people who have fought and died for freedom, liberty and the rule of law in this country?Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I am sorry, I am not taking an intervention at this time.Lord Thomas of Gresford
(Lord Thomas of Gresford.)1003: My Lords, all I can say is that the people of this country are not sheep. The people of this country have stood their ground. They have stood their ground when there were bombs from the IRA, from terrorists, going on about us in Manchester, Birmingham and London. The people of
(Lord Thomas of Gresford.)1003Lord Thomas of Gresford
rose to move, as an amendment to Motion A, leave out from "House" to end and insert "Do insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1A and 1B to Lords Amendment No.1; do insist on its Amendments Nos.37Q to 37T in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8 to which the Commons have disagreed; do insist on their insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement and do insist on their disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 37A to 37O in lieu of those Lords Amendments; and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 17H to 17M to the words restored to the Bill by the Commons insistence on their disagreement to Lords Amendment No. 17.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, was it cheap? It is not cheap in British lives. They led us into war in Iraq on information from the security services that turned out to be wrong.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I will say no more about that; we have had all the arguments that we need.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I give that undertaking on behalf of my party.Lord Thomas of Gresford
: My Lords, I am deeply grateful to my noble friend for giving way. I am struck by her amendment and the way she is putting it forward. However, will she not agree that the issue is not as simple as she has put it? Is there not a danger that we are all drifting into a situation in which we are accepting the historical and long-lasting inevitability of removing certain principles in our justice system when that is necessary? Is it not therefore vital for us to emphasise that it is essential to review this legislation, in the sense that it is incumbent on this House and the Government annually to prove that this legislation is necessary, rather than to prove that it is not necessary?Lord Judd
: My Lords, I have to inform the House that if Amendment D1 is agreed to, I shall not be able to call Amendment D2.The Deputy Speaker (Lord Tordoff)
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that we have seven years of very good evidence that the drugs improve the quality of life of the patients and their carers, and that the only way to determine whether the drugs will benefit a patient is to try them out?Lord McColl of Dulwich
: My Lords, the Question is that Motion C be agreed to.The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
: My Lords, I have to notify the House, in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967, that the Queen has signified her Royal Assent to the following Act:The Chairman of Committees
1023: My Lords, I never thought that I would hear the party of Lloyd George get up in the House of Lords and claim that this House was more democratic and more representative than the one that is elected down there at regular intervals and which has been returned by the most enormous majority.1023Lord Richard
: He has to, my Lords.Lord Richard
: My Lords, how can the noble Lord say that that is simply the concession? That is a massive concession. It means that all these cases will now go before a judge. In view of those circumstances, how can the noble Lord possibly maintain that this is, as I think I heard him say, smoke and mirrors?Lord Richard
: My Lords, a quite specific policy objective of the housing market Pathfinders—it has never occurred in any other programme, whether the general improvement areas, the housing action areas or the urban renewal areas—is to raise property values. In the past that has happened almost as a by-product of other work. We need to raise the values of these properties. It is unusual in the south-east to talk about falling house prices, but that is still the case in parts of the north-east and north-west where house values have not got back to what they were 10 years ago.Lord Rooker
: No, my Lords, there is no specific target, which is why the Deputy Prime Minister said no such thing.Lord Rooker
Moving Forward: The Northern Way: My Lords, where terraced homes are demolished, they will be replaced with good quality housing of mixed tenure and mixed price, in full consultation with residents to keep communities together. Building work on one location in Liverpool will start in a few weeks. Moving Forward: The Northern WayThe Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
: Yes, my Lords. But I do not understand the problem. We have a programme not for clearing terraced houses but for redeveloping communities. That requires a mixture of refurbishment of houses, clearance and new build. Indeed, in the Pathfinder areas of the north-east and north-west over the next few years, there will be far more refurbishment than demolition. It is planned that 20,000 houses will be refurbished as opposed to some 10,000 removed, and those will be removed only where it does not make sense to send good money after bad. As I say, homes that were built sometimes without foundations in the century before last cannot, with the best will in the world, provide modern living for people. Therefore, they have served their useful purpose.Lord Rooker
836: My Lords, I certainly take the noble Baroness's latter point on VAT. There is a paradox and it looks like a contradiction in policy. We are constrained by the VAT directive, of course, so unless a specific derogation is in place, we would have to apply the minimum rate of 5 per cent. But it is true that the policy is to build on brownfield rather than greenfield and yet the tax treatment is the same. In
836Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I reject that outright. There is not a shred of evidence in the housing market Pathfinder areas of people being made homeless. Again I say to the noble Baroness that there is no presumption of demolition. I could take noble Lords to terraced housing which has been gutted and rebuilt internally to modern eco-standards—far better standards than those for modern houses. That was done for experimental purposes for lighting and heating. So there is not a programme for the demolition of these houses. Where they can be remodelled, we will do so, including knocking two into one by joining one to the back and one to the front, so that we can get decent quality housing.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, having practised as a human rights lawyer in South Africa at a time when house arrest and a range of other oppressive laws had been passed allowing the authorities arbitrarily to deprive citizens of the protection of the courts, I would like to speak briefly. I will make only one significant point on the sunset clause.Lord Joffe
Official Report,"We will have this debate here, and we will have this debate in the country, and we will see where the shame lies; but in my judgment the shame will lie with the Conservatives, who, faced with legislation to prevent terrorism—faced with legislation on which we were advised by our police and security services—are going to vote against it. If they want to vote against it, let them: we will be content ultimately to have the verdict of the country on it".—[Official Report,Official Report,"I point out to the right hon. and learned Gentleman that that will effectively be subject to a sunset clause, because if we introduce it, and we will introduce it only if there is another vote of the House of Commons and the House of Lords, my understanding is that it becomes annually reviewable and renewable. In other words, that part of the Bill is already subject to a sunset clause".—[Official Report,"has had the worst possible effect. It has politicised an issue that should command a consensus among all responsible MPs to safeguard Britain and its liberties"."Labour is facing its sternest test of how to handle the whole issue of terrorism … The inept handling of this Bill"—Times894: My Lords, I think that I shall await the noble and learned Lord's answer to this debate with considerable interest. I shall be particularly interested to hear how he reacts to the speech that was made just now by the noble Baroness, Lady Kennedy. It was a superb speech. It was a sincere speech. It had nothing to do with parties. I say in
Official Report,"We will have this debate here, and we will have this debate in the country, and we will see where the shame lies; but in my judgment the shame will lie with the Conservatives, who, faced with legislation to prevent terrorism—faced with legislation on which we were advised by our police and security services—are going to vote against it. If they want to vote against it, let them: we will be content ultimately to have the verdict of the country on it".—[Official Report,Official Report,"I point out to the right hon. and learned Gentleman that that will effectively be subject to a sunset clause, because if we introduce it, and we will introduce it only if there is another vote of the House of Commons and the House of Lords, my understanding is that it becomes annually reviewable and renewable. In other words, that part of the Bill is already subject to a sunset clause".—[Official Report,"has had the worst possible effect. It has politicised an issue that should command a consensus among all responsible MPs to safeguard Britain and its liberties"."Labour is facing its sternest test of how to handle the whole issue of terrorism … The inept handling of this Bill"—Times894Lord Peyton of Yeovil
: My Lords—Lord Harris of Haringey
habeas corpus.: My Lords, perhaps I may say to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor that we were at that time in a state of war. We are not in a state of war tonight. Secondly, the powers that I used, as the noble learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, said, were subject to review by his committee and some of the people that I recommended should be interned were released by his committee.habeas corpus.Lord Baker of Dorking
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hope, did not sit in the Rehman case and my noble and learned friend has just repeated an appalling error which appeared in the document that came from the Secretary of State. The passage that was chosen, and to which my noble and learned friend presumably referred, was by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Hoffmann, whose reasoning the noble and learned Lord, Lord Steyn, has questioned, in that it was not central to the other judgments in the Rehman case. If a Government cannot put forward arguments when they do not know their Hopes from their Hoffmanns, they are very likely not to get their way.Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
: My Lords, I had intended to rise to thank the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, and to remind her that sunset on 31 March next year will be at 18.32 Greenwich Mean Time. However, I realise that I, probably as much as many of your Lordships, have had experience of dealing with countries such as this, and I have no confidence at all in the statement made by the Government that they are moved solely by information from the security services. I lack that confidence and I have a fear that what the Government are doing now is for political reasons based on Chinese whispers and second-hand information. If they have another motive, that is fair by me, but my own knowledge and experience tells me that the Government are wrong.Lord Selsdon
: My Lords, may I press the noble Lord on his reply to me? Does he agree that the average attainment of those entering undergraduate courses for teacher training is well below one E at A-level? Does he further agree that, 10 years ago, it was two Es at A-level, so the situation is deteriorating and should be addressed?Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that Answer. If one considers that teacher training is the soil in which the roots of our education system feed, the situation appears to be very worrying. Does the Minister agree that the Written Answer given to me by his noble friend Lord Filkin on 18 January, when referred to the DfES website, reveals that the average attainment of those entering undergraduate teacher training courses is well below one E at A-level, or 20 points on the UCAS scale? If that is so, how is this lack of subject knowledge rectified by the courses in question? If it is not, how can the teachers concerned impart knowledge which they do not possess?Lord Pearson of Rannoch
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, if a person in the position of the Home Secretary makes the kind of remarks that he made about the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher, which have apparently no basis in fact at all, surely it is courteous for i he government Front Bench to accept that and to apologise. I had the great privilege of being a junior Minister in the Home Office when Mr Maudling was Secretary of State and he said that the duty of the Home Secretary was to try to be above the political battle and to take an interest in the country as a whole. With respect, the remarks made by Mr Clarke yesterday morning on the eight o'clock programme were in very poor taste.Lord Carlisle of Bucklow
: My Lords, the problem concerning the risk of a future terrorist attack is that the past is no guide. The fact that we got the WMD issue or various other issues wrong cannot be used as a sure guide in saying that the security services are always wrong. Without trying to raise the temperature any further. since Second Reading I have been asking myself the following question. Many of us do not like the idea of incarcerating an innocent person, and that is right. There is that risk to the person and his family and so on. On the other hand, there is a risk that one terrorist could escape and cause multiple deaths. How many deaths would noble Lords balance against the incarceration of one or two innocent people before they changed their minds? I do not know. I am saying that I have struck my balance in such a way—Lord Desai
1006: My Lords, I do not. Since we are talking about Muslims, the noble Lord's argument suggests that all Muslims are a single, homogeneous whole and that they do not realise what the Government are doing. They can see, however, that some of their own people are going against the tenets of their own religion. They want to isolate them. not go with them. Obviously, it is a sensitive issue for them. I recognise that.1006Lord Desai
: My Lords, perhaps I may finish this argument; it is important and the noble Lord has spoken quite a lot. I am not saying that I know the answer to that question but I am saying that the two things have to be balanced. Some of us think that the loss from death or injury is incalculable compared with the incarceration of an innocent person.Lord Desai
: My Lords, I have to announce that in Divisions 1 to 3, and 6 and 7 earlier this evening, the number voting "Not Content" should in each case be increased by one.The Deputy Speaker (Lord Brougham and Vaux)
: My Lords—Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
890889: My Lords, the speech made a few moments ago by the noble Baroness. Lady Hayman, seemed to make eminent sense. Looking around your Lordships' House, I believe that there are few people—with the exception of those who are on the Government Front Bench and under instruction—
890889Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor has pointed out a number of times that the other place has taken a view. The other place had three hours yesterday to consider every single amendment plus a Bill which it had not seen. Of the three hours, more than half the time was taken up by Front Bench speeches. It is ridiculous to suggest that the other place has discussed these matters in any detail—for it has not, because the Government have not given it the time to do so.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
879: My Lords, before the noble Lady sits down, I too heard the intervention by the Home Secretary on the radio and I heard him in the other place yesterday saying that the amendment was not necessary because the existing law provides for social security payments to be made. Therefore, both statements by the Home Secretary cannot be correct. He caricatured the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher, as having voted for increased benefits. In reply, I hope that the Government will take the opportunity to
879Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, it is worth pointing out that today, despite its shortcomings, Heathrow is working thanks not least to the labour reforms brought in by the previous Conservative government; whereas Paris is not working and is afflicted by a lightning general strike on the day when the Olympic Committee is visiting Paris. Should not the committee take into account the stable economic conditions that we enjoy in Britain when deciding between London and Paris?Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, I am listening to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor, but perhaps he could help me on the issue of safety and security. Given that the derogating orders are going to be used in respect of the most serious cases— the people who represent the greatest danger to the public—I do not understand the argument that says "We must have a lesser test for the non-derogating orders, because otherwise we would not be able to take action; but we are going to have a tougher test for the most serious people, because we are concerned about security". On both legal and practical grounds, like the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, I do not understand the logic of this.Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
: My Lords, the Leader of the House is our servant and should ensure that the House functions properly. I know that the noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay, feels strongly about this matter, but please, dear Leader, as they say in certain other places, help us to maintain order.The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, I am not accusing the noble Baroness of not telling the truth as she sees it, but it was not clear to us. I am very sorry that the noble Baroness puts on that face, but she did not make it clear to us. The noble and learned Lord, with his forensic ability, has now made it very clear to us. The fact that the Government have not known what they are doing, do not know how to present their case and change their case half-way through is the whole trouble with this Bill. I am pleased that the issue has been aired. I was disgusted when I heard what had been said about the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher, but I am equally pleased that the noble Lady, Lady Saltoun, has indicated that she will withdraw her amendment.The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, I originally put my name to the amendment because I thought that what the noble Lady, Lady Saltoun, had said was extremely valid. It is easy to see circumstances in which someone could be incapable of drawing social security benefits. Had the Minister, at the beginning, given the explanation that he has now given the House—the noble Baroness, from a deliciously sedentary position, says that the Minister did.The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, have the security services told the Government that the security of the country will be at risk if we have a sunset clause?The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, during the foot and mouth disease outbreak we used to say how sensible and well the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman, presented her case. After about the third time she got frightfully ratty at the Dispatch Box and said that she was fed up with compliments from Members on our side of the House.The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, if the groan goes up, the groan goes up. Oh why, oh why, oh why could they not have said this 24 hours ago? No, the noble Baroness did not. We have got a timetable and all the undertakings that we want. There is an expression: if it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck and swims like a duck, it is a duck. The only difference between this duck and the duck provided by the noble and learned Lord is that his duck is just efficient in one webbed foot.The Earl of Onslow
891: My Lords, not for the first time, I find myself in almost total agreement with the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman. Because she put her case so clearly and because my noble friend Lord Forsyth made many of the points that I wished to make about the Prime Minister's stance, I can be very brief.891Lord Crickhowell
: My Lords, NICE has a tremendous record in taking account of patients' views when preparing guidance. It makes particular effort to include patients and the public in the development of all its guidance. It also operates a citizens' council, a 30-member advisory body established to consult and advise on social, moral and ethical issues relating to its work. On this health technology appraisal, NICE consulted a number of patient care groups, such as the Alzheimer's Society, Counsel and Care for the elderly, Age Concern, the Dementia Care Trust and the Mental Health Foundation. It will continue to listen to advice from all those sources during the process of consultation.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I accept that we need evidence. That is why, in the whole area of technology appraisals, the Government established the National Institute for Clinical Excellence so that the effectiveness evidence could be fully explored and documented in the public arena, and that the data could be related to the cost in terms of quality-of-life years. In this case, I am sure that NICE will consider all the evidence, as it has done in other parts of its work.Lord Warner
843: My Lords, I am sure that the whole House will sympathise with all people who have Alzheimer's and their families. The noble Baroness is right—it is important that full and proper account is taken of the wider impact of the drugs, particularly on the carers of people with Alzheimer's disease, who are often elderly themselves. The full costs and benefits need to be taken into account. I am sure that the issue will be considered very carefully by NICE in the
843Lord Warner
: My Lords, the draft technology appraisal issued by NICE on 1 March is a consultation document setting out its proposed guidance on drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. I understand that NICE's draft recommendations differ from those in its original 2001 appraisal because it has taken account of more recent evidence on the effectiveness of the drugs. NICE will carefully consider all consultation responses before issuing its final guidance. Until that is issued, the NHS should adhere to the recommendation of NICE's 2001 appraisal, which means that existing patients should continue with their present treatment.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, my noble friend is right; I am not surprised about that given his experience. NICE has an international reputation for its work on clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Many of its pieces of guidance—there have been 88 technology appraisals, of which this is one, and 25 clinical guidelines—have produced results that have benefited thousands of patients. On record, I want to correct what has been said in the media. The recommendation is not a matter of cost. NICE has recommended many drugs with far higher costs than the Alzheimer's drugs in this study.Lord Warner
: My Lords, we are generalising a bit in the area, but a typical annual cost per patient for this class of drugs would be about £1,000, which is relatively low compared with some other drugs. For example, the annual cost of some drugs for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis is between £8,500 and £10,500. I emphasise that the recommendation is not a matter of cost. NICE is looking at the clinical effectiveness as well. We must have some trust in its capacity to evaluate the evidence available in the area.Lord Warner
: My Lords, does my noble friend accept that, over the years that NICE has been in existence, a considerable number of new drugs that have proved very effective have been made available to NHS patients as a result of the work that it has undertaken? Does that not suggest that we should have some trust in its judgment and await the final results of its work in the area?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
1055: My Lords, I think that I should give the House notice of my intentions. I and many other Back-Benchers have laboured long and hard and have listened
1055Lord Lucas
1024: My Lords, there are two constitutional issues, and the two speakers on the Government Benches have failed to deal with the first. It may he true that this House is not democratic, and few would deny it, but that it is representative is also true.1024Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for giving way. Perhaps she will take the opportunity at this point of her speech to reply to the point made by my noble friend Lord Goodhart that in the event of a review taking place of the kind that she described, it would be constitutionally unprecedented for this House to vote it down because it would be an order, which would have been approved by the other House. She seems completely to have overlooked that limitation on this House's ability to pass its view.Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords—Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords—Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, the House may say yea or nay, but it may not be able to offer alternatives. It is amendments that are required, not only a decision for or against a renewal. I can see no way to overcome the problem other than by having a sunset clause.Lord Sheldon
: My Lords, will the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor help me a little? We all accept the primacy of another place, and the fact that your Lordships usually have to agree to its views. What worries me is that, if the Government could have moved and accepted the sunset clause, that would have enabled them to get their Bill. What also worries me is that the Bill the Commons have had to consider is totally different from what it was when it left another place, and they have only had about three hours to consider it. That is bad. If the noble and learned Lord were able to go thus far and say "All right, we will agree a sunset clause", another place would be able to consider the Bill in the fullness of time and with its proper jurisdiction, as opposed simply to agreeing to what has been passed down from your Lordships' House to the Commons.Earl Ferrers
"It is not in order for Members to continue the debate on a motion or an unstarred question after the government's reply has been given, save for questions to the minister before the minister sits down".the Companion:: My Lords, permit me to read paragraph 4.18 of "It is not in order for Members to continue the debate on a motion or an unstarred question after the government's reply has been given, save for questions to the minister before the minister sits down".the Companion:Lord Elton
: My Lords, perhaps I may proffer some advice, which is often a dangerous thing to do. I sense that there is a desire for a small debate on the amendment, so it is entirely appropriate for the noble Lady to move it and, in due course, the noble and learned Lord can respond. If, after that, she is still satisfied, she can withdraw her amendment.Lord Strathclyde
: My Lords, we support the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, in proposing to set up the review by Privy Counsellors. It is a useful procedure. We support even more strongly the proposal for a sunset clause. It is not only useful but absolutely essential, for all the reasons proposed by the noble Baroness, Lady Hayman.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, with respect to the noble and learned Lord, where would he find any commitment by the judges that proportionality is an issue in judicial review cases?Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, does the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor accept that what we are left with here is still a case of judicial review and not of the court making the order, and that therefore the statements that appear to have been made by the Government for publicity purposes—that they are extending judicial making of the order to non-derogating orders—is not in fact the case?Lord Goodhart
: My Lords—Lord Goodhart
(Lord Goodhart.): That is true, my Lords. If you look at it now, it is the party membership in this House that more accurately represents the votes cast at the last general election than does the House of Commons.(Lord Goodhart.)Lord Goodhart
1022rose to move, as an amendment to Motion A, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1A and 1B to Lords Amendment No. 1; do insist on its Amendments Nos. 37Q to 37T in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8 to which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement; do insist on its insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement and do insist on their disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 37A to 37C and 37E to 370 in lieu of those Lords Amendments; do insist on their disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 17H to 17M to the words restored to the Bill by the Commons insistence on their disagreement to Lords Amendment No. 17; and do disagree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 37V in lieu.1022Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, does he not agree that the restriction or deprivation of liberty of innocent people is the fastest way to alienate the communities from which they come and that alienating those communities will increase the number of terrorists and the risk of terrorism?Lord Goodhart
: My Lords—Lord Goodhart
1001: My Lords, as the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor has got on to the subject
1001Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I must make it clear to the noble Baroness that this is not our amendment. We said that as long as the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, chooses to move his amendment, we will support it, even if he intends, as the ultimate weapon, to block the Bill.Lord Goodhart
(Lord Goodhart.)1061: My Lords, I hear certain expressions of dismay, but this is an important constitutional Bill and we have agreed to the most recent proposal on the basis of undertakings given by the Government. We trust those undertakings and I am sure that the Government have every intention of carrying them out. But I should warn Members of the party opposite that, in the circumstances, we reserve this right. We have no expectation that we will ever need to rely on it, but it could possibly arise.(Lord Goodhart.)1061Lord Goodhart
1060rose to move, as an amendment to Motion A, leave out from "House" to end and insert "do insist on its disagreement with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 1A and 1B to Lords Amendment No. 1; do insist on its Amendments Nos. 37Q, 37S, 37T and 37Y in lieu of Lords Amendment No. 8; do insist on its insistence on Lords Amendments Nos. 12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 28 and 37 in respect of which the Commons have
1060Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I think that at one point in my introductory speech I may have referred to "beyond reasonable doubt" when I meant "on the balance of probabilities". I am afraid that after the longest Thursday of my life, I am prone to one or two little slips of that nature.Lord Goodhart
moved, as an amendment to Motion D, Amendment D2:Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, when I spoke this morning in support of the sunset clause amendment that I moved, I did so in the belief that the best accommodation of the difficulties before us was to stop arguing about the detailed provisions of the Bill, to accept where we had got to in terms of judicial involvement and balance of probabilities or reasonable suspicion. It was to stop that argument, to recognise that we had to come to a decision and to say that we would leave the Bill as it was, but that it was crucially important to be able to revisit what we had done in a reasonable period of time. I did not believe, and do not believe now, that we have had sufficient time in both Houses to get the best legislation that we should have on this topic. Not that we should not have any legislation on it, because I do not believe that.Baroness Hayman
900: My Lords, it is difficult procedure; we are having to make it up a little as we go
900Baroness Hayman
: My Lords—Baroness Hayman
: My Lords, I do not think there is any incompatibility between what I am saying and what my noble friend says. I am being tougher than he is, and saying that we have only one review for this legislation because we only have one year of it. In the successor legislation, my noble friend may be exactly right. Because it will involve major issues of constitutional relevance, the House will want to consider what the review provisions are in that legislation. I am talking about this legislation now, and am afraid I believe it should be considered as a temporary measure.Baroness Hayman
887: My Lords, my noble friend is absolutely right. It is also a job for other people as well. We have had very little opportunity to hear what interests people outside this House in terms of this Bill. We have not had the normal process where those with interest and expertise consult their own memberships, look at their own views, and put those forward to us. I want to see that before we next look at the legislation.887Baroness Hayman
886: My Lords, I voted with the Government in the previous Division in this House not because I was wholly tranquil or serene—in the words of the prayer—with the arrangements that we have finally come to about judicial control of control orders, burden of proof or any of those other matters. I did so because I believe that we are at the stage in our deliberations when we have to stand back and we have a responsibility seriously to focus on that with which we cannot hold. We must try to understand that other people have other issues about which they feel equally strongly.886Baroness Hayman
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clause 59,Clauses 19 to 57,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,Clause 58,
Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clause 59,Clauses 19 to 57,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,Clause 58,: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clause 59,Clauses 19 to 57,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,Clause 58,
Schedules 6 and 7,Clause 63,Schedules 4 and 5,Clauses 60 to 62,Schedule 3,Clause 59,Clauses 19 to 57,Schedule 2,Clauses 10 to 18,Schedule 1,Clauses 1 to 9,Clause 58,The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
: My Lords, before I withdraw the amendment, it is open to any noble Lord in any part of the House, when an amendment is withdrawn, to be Not-Content. I beg leave to withdraw Amendment B1.Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
Lady Saltoun of Abernethy.: My Lords, I beg to move.Lady Saltoun of Abernethy.Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: My Lords, before I beg leave to withdraw the amendment, it is of course open—Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
"the surreal example of Lady Thatcher going into the Division Lobby to vote for increased social security for people suspected of being terrorists".moved, as an amendment to Motion B, Amendment B1:"the surreal example of Lady Thatcher going into the Division Lobby to vote for increased social security for people suspected of being terrorists".Lady Saltoun of Abernethy
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his helpful reply which gives more clarity to the situation. Given that Liverpool is due to be the European Capital of Culture in 2008 and that the motto for that year—"Liverpool, The World in One City"—is epitomised by the Granby Street district, one of the oldest multi-racial communities which goes back well over 100 years. does the Minister agree that the desire of many homeowner residents in the remaining Victorian houses in that part of Liverpool to remain in their homes and preserve the value of their homes rather than see them demolished should be considered?Baroness Hooper
Moving Forward: the Northern Way.asked Her Majesty's Government:Moving Forward: the Northern Way.Baroness Hooper
893: My Lords, I want to say to my noble friend Lady Wall that we are talking about something much more substantial in our lives than making a business contract. We are talking about fundamental rights and liberty; the stuff that this House particularly can speak to in the interests of all the citizens of this country.893Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws
: My Lords, having lived in a terraced Victorian house in Cambridge for several years—it was kind of updated with a bathroom, which it did not previously ha ve—I wonder whether the Minister agrees that variety of architecture is what makes the beauty of a city, rather than having uniform rows and rows of characterless houses.Baroness Trumpington
837: My Lords, is the Minister aware of the previous housing policies for general improvement areas, where all across the country there have been endless examples of terraced houses such as these being put back into good order, in exactly the
837Baroness Hanham
(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.): My Lords, on behalf of the Lord President, I beg to move the third Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton.)Baroness Farrington of Ribbleton
844: My Lords, how will individual patients be involved in making decisions about the use
844Baroness Neuberger
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that over the course of time the number of students taking undergraduate courses in education has been falling, and the number entering the profession through postgraduate courses has been increasing? Do the Government have any plans over the longer run to phase out undergraduate courses in education completely?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, does the noble Lord appreciate the opening statement of my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor, when he described the whole of this process as about protecting the people of our nation? Like many of us in the Chamber, I have sat through three days of debate. I intervene early today on the basis that I am not a lawyer and will not make legal points, but I am someone who is in touch with people out there, who feel very threatened and nervous that the dilution of the Government's original policy will be such that they will not have protection. Surely the noble Lord should have that at the forefront of his mind.Baroness Wall of New Barnet
892: My Lords, I am sure that noble Lords opposite who have any involvement in business will know that in a partnership relationship
892Baroness Wall of New Barnet
: My Lords, I think that the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, should allow some views from the rest of the House.Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: My Lords, in that case, will the Minister agree? I will not go into the question of the Secretary of State and the judge now, because I have to tell the House right away that I would not have given way from the original positions. I do not think that a judge should make these decisions. I think that they should be made by a Secretary of State. Would he further agree that there is no reason why this could not be the same kind of parallel as in the Interception of Communications Act, where the Secretary of State signs and the judge then comes in on review? Would he not agree—Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: My Lords, this is on the amendment.Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Thomas of Gresford, said that he was absolutely baffled and could not understand how people could accept reasonable suspicion as a ground for non-derogated orders and a higher burden of proof for the higher ones, and he quoted the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, and the noble Lord, Lord Forsyth, as saying that.Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
: My Lords, there are one or perhaps two further undertakings that are relevant. One has been implicitly made. The noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor has committed his party to a certain course of action with respect to legislation, after an election, on counter-terrorism. I think that I heard the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, make a comparable undertaking on behalf of his party, should it be in power. I hope that we may have a comparable undertaking from the Liberal Democrats.Baroness O'Neill of Bengarve
: My Lords, is the Minister aware of the Ofsted report of last November which found that one-third of trainee sixth-form and FE college teachers did not have the equivalent of a GCSE grade C in English or maths? Is he content with that? If not, will he give the House some indication of what action the Government intend to take?Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons amendments and reasons be now considered.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
Baroness Scotland of Asthal.882: My Lords, I beg to move Motion C, that the House do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 27, 31 and 32, to which the Commons have disagreed for their reasons numbered 27A, 31A and 32A. I shall speak also to Lords Amendment No. 33, which will be decided on under Motion D. I will endeavour to speak slowly and clearly, just in case my command of English is insufficient to enable your Lordships to understand what I say.Baroness Scotland of Asthal.882Baroness Scotland of Asthal
Hansard,: My Lords, I find the statement made by the noble Earl surprising. In responding, as I hope I did courteously, to the amendment of the noble Lady, Lady Saltoun, I made it very clear that there was provision for benefits and that they were in no way adversely affected by this legislation. a fact that my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor has just repeated. To suggest that that was not firmly before the House is not only, if I may respectfully say so, an inaccurate statement, but also suggests that I did not properly inform the House of the true position. If noble Lords consult Hansard,Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1065rose to move, That this House do not insist on its Amendment No. 33D, but do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33C, 33G, 33J and 33L in lieu thereof.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1065Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.): My Lords, the House heard what was said. I now ask Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition whether they share the view that was expressed and whether they, too, will veto this Bill.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the annual review is an effective means for both Houses to make that clear. Noble Lords on all Benches have said on a number of occasions that the other place has absolutely the same sort of concerns. The annual renewal—renewal is what we are talking about—will enable both Houses to look at whether it is necessary to continue the legislation, and whether it has been developed, dealt with and undertaken in a proper way. It is an appropriate vehicle. I hear what the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, says about it, but it is possible. On renewal, the House can say yea or nay.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
898: My Lords, I will give way once I have finished this.898Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I will not give way. I wish to finish this. In so many cases when we have had annual renewals, there has not been another legislative vehicle that could conveniently be used to have this debate.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, there have been other ways. From this Dispatch Box, I do not need to remind noble Lords of the way in which annual renewals have been dealt with in other legislation. The contingencies Act also dealt with renewals. We have made the commitment for the new legislation. It is not beyond the wit of this House to put amendments in any such new legislation that will deal adequately with the matter. This House will have a vehicle that could be used effectively and creatively to meet the need. The most important thing is that we send no signal to those outside the House that this country is wavering at all in relation to its position.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, my noble friend is absolutely right. When we were debating the issue last Tuesday, I said that the Government would listen, would continue to look at the matter and would respond. We responded. Bearing in mind the nature of that response—the fact that there is now a renewal provision, which was asked for— this House should be content and not insistent.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I wonder if I could finish. The noble Lord has been on his feet on a number of occasions, and this is the first time that I have been on mine for a significant time.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: It is, my Lords, because I have noted carefully what has happened on each occasion. My noble friend Lady Hayman is right that the procedure that we have now adopted on control orders is much, much better than Part 4. It is likely that we will have new opportunities to look at the legislation as to what else we need to put in place. I cannot envisage a position—particularly if the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd, and my noble friend Lady Kennedy of The Shaws, and others on the Liberal Democrat Benches stay in their place—where we will not have a really trenchant, difficult and testing debate on any such new provisions. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd, is right that there is not absolute parity and agreement that the new provisions are the right way either. We will have to get that right. We will not, and should not, rush that position.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I understand entirely what the noble Lord says. I propose first to respond to Motion C, so that we have some clarity about what the House will be asked to decide on in that regard. I anticipate that, unless I persuade noble Lords otherwise, that will be the first issue on which the House is likely to be divided. I propose then to move on to the next Motion, on the sunset clause. I appreciate that, in the general debate, we have conflated the arguments on both Motions.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
896: No, my Lords, with the greatest respect, I said that the two issues were linked. I put the background so that we could understand how the first Motion we were going to debate related to the second. I did not say that I was going to answer both Motions together. I absolutely understand that the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, said that he would speak to both Motions at that point. I did not rise to my feet to indicate that that was not something which we were perfectly happy should take place.896Baroness Scotland of Asthal
895: My Lords, first, may I just bring us back to the group with which we are
895Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)905: My Lords, I beg to move Motion D, that the House do not insist on its Amendment No. 33 but do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33A to 33C in lieu thereof.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)905Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.) rose to move, That this House do not insist on its Amendment No. 33D, but do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33C, 33F and 33G in lieu thereof.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)rose to move, that this House do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 27, 31 and 32 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement, and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 27C, 27D and 32D in lieu thereof.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1054rose to move Motion B, That this House do not insist on its Amendments Nos. 27, 31 and 32 in respect of which the Commons have insisted on their disagreement, and do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 27C, 27D and 32F.(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1054Baroness Scotland of Asthal
rose to move Motion C, That the House do not insist on its Amendment No. 33D, but do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 33C, 33G, 33I and 33J in lieu thereof.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1000: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons amendments and reasons be considered forthwith.
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1000Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, what is the cost on average of treating a patient with the drugs that it is proposed be discontinued? I am clear that NICE has to assess things on the basis of value for money; on the whole, we are impressed by its efficiency. However, as my noble friend said, the trial research period of seven years is a long time to establish the effectiveness.Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply, which gives me some hope. I am sure that he will agree that the true cost of withdrawing the drugs, if they were to be withdrawn, would be much greater than the direct cost to the NHS. In considering it, did NICE look at the cost to the economy of people leaving work to become carers, for example, or the cost to health and social care providers as well as families of the need for greater hospital nursing and community care services? Will the Government's response to the NICE recommendation, when it has been considered, take account of the cost in human suffering of the growing number of people for whom the drugs could give six months or even a year of prolonged independence, as well as the impact on their loved ones of a disease that we all acknowledge is absolutely dreadful?Baroness Greengross
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Greengross
874: My Lords, I totally agree with that. However, the House needs to adopt a degree of consistency in the
874The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, the London congestion charge scheme is the responsibility of the Mayor of London and Transport for London. It is for them to assess the full range of impacts of the scheme, both for business and the wider community. We have not sought to duplicate the monitoring regime that the Mayor has put in place, but we continue to follow the scheme's progress. Any decision to increase the charge is a matter for the Mayor.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that response. Does he agree that since London is a capital city, the Government should look at the effects of the congestion charge, particularly on businesses in the city, both inside and outside the charging area, particularly as the Mayor's consultation has not really included businesses, which are, after all, the most badly affected?Viscount Astor
: My Lords, as I indicated, it is for the Mayor to carry out the evaluation and consultation on any future changes. Of course. the department monitors the development of the scheme. The House will recognise that in certain crucial areas the department has some general responsibility. The Department for Transport states that there is an 80 per cent reduction in traffic entering the zone, a 15 per cent reduction in traffic within the zone, and there is clearly an improvement in bus reliability, which is important to many Londoners. The congestion charge has cut by 30 per cent on average the amount of traffic inside the zone, so we consider it to be a success.Lord Davies of Oldham
1068: My Lords, is the Minister aware that the John Lewis Partnership has conducted a vigorous campaign against the congestion charge, both in London and Edinburgh, through the medium of the local press? If the Government's congestion charging policy is to have any chance of success, it is essential that people really understand the impact on business. Is the Minister aware that at the same time as the John Lewis Partnership was complaining, the
1068Lord Bradshaw
: My Lords, the John Lewis Partnership is an important business, but in carrying out that survey it was vulnerable to exactly the points that the noble Lord indicated. It was not able to, and did not, discount the wider factors involved. As noble Lords will recall, the catastrophic problems with the Central Line during that period had a direct impact on Oxford Street, for an obvious reason, and international factors affected foreign tourists. I agree with the noble Lord on that. It is for the Mayor of London to carry out an evaluation of the scheme. No doubt he is taking wider factors into account, which perhaps it was in the interests of the John Lewis Partnership to consider.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, given the Government's clear statement of the benefits of the congestion charge, as my noble friend has just set out, what are the Government doing to ensure that those benefits are known more widely among other local authorities in the UK? In particular, are the Government giving some incentive within the local transport plan settlement to encourage local authorities to go for congestion charging?Lord Berkeley
: My Lords, we have indicated that there are funds for initiatives that involve innovation with regard to traffic management. The whole House will recognise that road congestion is one of the greatest single factors that affects us all, but it affects cities particularly acutely. That is why cities must take their own decisions on this matter. We respect that the citizens of Edinburgh decided that the congestion charge was not in their interests. We have no doubt that other conurbations will take a rather different perspective on this, probably sooner rather than later, given that at present traffic in our city centres is controlled by bringing it to a standstill through congestion.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there are quite different findings of satisfaction or dissatisfaction between the Greater London Authority and Westminster City Council, which has done its own survey? It found that 47 per cent of visitors say that the existing scheme has a negative impact and 69 per cent say that an increase in the charge from £5 to £8 would be very negative. Some 70 per cent would like the hours to be altered. Will he remind the House what power the Greater London Authority has on this? Does the Mayor have an absolute decision and can do what he likes irrespective of whether the councils affected have views on it? Or must he take their views into consideration and reconcile those differences in findings?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
1069: My Lords, of course the Mayor must take into account such important representations from any inner London local authority.
1069Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, my noble friend has already indicated the benefits as far as traffic congestion is concerned. What are the benefits to air quality, because that will surely be of great importance, not only for the people who visit London, but for those people who work in the businesses to which we are referring?Baroness Billingham
: My Lords, I do not have figures on that, because, as my noble friend will, I think, appreciate, the congestion charge area is limited in its range and therefore in its ability to tackle pollution. The charge makes a contribution to that by reducing traffic, although part of the scheme is to increase the use of buses, which have enormous benefits and move more people, but which, nevertheless, also contribute to air pollution problems. We would need to examine the benefits of a wider area than the limited area currently covered by the congestion charge before we could evaluate effectively the environmental improvements.Lord Davies of Oldham
: My Lords, we are committed to backing head teachers' authority when pupils' behaviour warrants exclusion. Our guidance says that we do not normally expect appeal panels to reinstate pupils excluded for serious violence. The panel must have regard to the guidance and take account of the individual circumstances of the case, all the evidence available and exercise its own judgment in reaching a decision.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
1070: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that Answer. His comments reinforce what we on these Benches have been thinking. In 2003, 71 per cent of appeals led to reinstatement in those schools. Given that we have just spent days discussing an education Bill that is trying to raise standards in schools, does he agree that reinstatement of those pupils who were
1070Lord Hanningfield
: My Lords, the noble Lord. Lord Hanningfield, is in danger of conflating various statistics and making two plus two equal five. In 2002–03, which is the last year for which we have statistics, there were 9,290 permanent exclusions. Of those, about 10 per cent appealed and only 149 were reinstated. Those 149 do not, of course, equate to cases of serious violence, because those would be only a small proportion of all the cases that were excluded. Only 21 per cent of appeals were found in favour of parents, which does not indicate that the system is collapsing, nor is it right that parents are deprived of their right, if their child is excluded, at least to have the case put as to why they think that their child should not be excluded.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, what type of training do the members of the independent appeals panels receive? What are the Government doing to look at the root causes of the type of ill discipline that sometimes leads to those serious situations, such as family problems requiring family support services, the need for mental health services for teenagers and, in some cases, inappropriate curriculum?Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, is right that the training of independent appeals panels is crucial. We changed the process in 2003, so that there are now three-member panels, comprising a head or recently retired head teacher, a governor or recently retired governor and an independent chairman. There is training and advice provided by the department on how they should conduct their work. Training and advice is also provided to clerks to ensure that they approach their work fairly and objectively in looking at the evidence.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, does the Minister's department keep annual statistics of the number of serious attacks made on teachers, as is the case in Scotland? If not, why not? I declare an interest, as my daughter is a teacher.Viscount Tenby
1071: My Lords, we certainly keep statistics on all the attacks on teachers that lead to disciplinary action and either temporary or permanent exclusion. I shall double-check whether, in the rare cases when serious
1071Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the return of a pupil to a school which has declared that that pupil is unwelcome and should leave it for good creates an extraordinary situation in the school and an extraordinarily difficult relationship between the excluded child and the unwelcoming school. What training is given on how to handle the situation and what relations are there between the school and the panel which would enable the panel in some way to make this an easier transition back?Lord Elton
: My Lords, first, we changed the guidance to independent appeals panels so that they could find in favour of a parent—in other words, they could find that the exclusion was not justified—but at the same time decide not to reinstate the pupil into that school. One can well see that there would be circumstances when that was a healthy piece of flexibility.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, from the pupil's point of view, what are the mechanics of putting the case for him to be sent back to a school where no doubt he has seriously misbehaved and, if he does go back, he will meet a great deal of antagonism from various parts of the school? Who will represent his case before this panel?Baroness Trumpington
1072: My Lords, in part, the figures bear out what the noble Baroness is implying. Of the 9,000 or so permanent exclusions that I referred to earlier, only 10 per cent of those involved appeal. There are very many reasons why the 90 per cent do not appeal but undoubtedly one would be whether it was thought by the parents or the child to be in their interests to push for a return to that school. Of course, the child still has a right to education but that responsibility falls back on the local education authority.1072Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the taxation of the lottery is a principle that has been accepted by Parliament since the lottery was established in 1994. The lottery is a mainstream gambling activity and., like other gambling activities, should make a contribution to revenues for the funding of essential public services.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that rather disappointing reply. Out of a £1 National Lottery ticket, 50p goes on prizes, 28p goes to good causes and 12p goes on lottery duty. Something of the order of £10 billion has gone to the Treasury over the past 10 years, or £500 million each year. Is it not time that the Government reconsidered the recommendation made at almost exactly this time last year by the Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee so that that sum is available for good causes, especially with the creation of the big lottery fund, which means that the Government will control just that much more lottery spending?Lord Clement-Jones
: My Lords, the basis on which the 12p in the pound calculation was made in 1994—by the previous administration, I hasten to say—was that it would replace the loss to the Revenue of taxation on other forms of gambling or, indeed, other forms of charitable giving. I agree that that is more than 10 years ago and it is certainly true that the matter should be, and is being, kept under review. The Treasury evidence to the Commons Select Committee gives credence to that point.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, can my noble friend give us any advice and guidance on how far the Exchequer would become dependent on the revenue from the lottery in making up the shortfall following the Liberal Democrats' proposed 50 per cent taxation rate on those earning a salary off £100,000? Is my noble friend of the opinion that there would be enough money from that source to fund all the promises made by the Liberal Democrats?Lord Tomlinson
1073: My Lords, this is Starred Questions. I do not have time to list the spending commitments of the Liberal Democrat Party. I would
1073Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, can the noble Lord, in his omniscience, tell us whether the original justification for the 12p—as compensation to the Exchequer for other duties lost—has in fact proved to be correct?Lord Roberts of Conwy
: Yes, my Lords. To be precise, research was carried out after the lottery came into force in 1994. Clearly the question of how much other revenue is lost is not a matter of official statistics; it is a matter which has to be examined by research, and that was certainly true at the time or in the years immediately after the lottery came into being. I cannot say whether calculations have been carried out more recently.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, given the figures that the Minister gave us and given the current proposals in the Gambling Bill, does the Minister occasionally think that there might be a risk that the Government will acquire such a vested interest in people gambling that it will make it very difficult for them to address the many social evils which follow when gambling increases to the extent that it has?The Lord Bishop of Worcester
: My Lords, that is an interesting extension of the original Question, although I acknowledge that the right reverend Prelate has succeeded in basing it on the answers that I have given to the Question. Revenues from any kind of gambling, including from the lottery, are a very small part of the revenues of this country—something less than 1 per cent. Therefore, I find it difficult to believe that policy could be dictated, or even influenced, by that degree of contribution to revenues.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, having never asked for one of these lottery applications to be sent to me, I find that they now come to me in ever-increasing numbers—the total has reached more than 60 a week—but I have never become rich as a result. Is the state benefiting from this ever-increasing number?Lord Renton
: My Lords, I am afraid that I do not really follow the question from the noble Lord, Lord Renton. The National Lottery, which we are talking about, requires people to buy National Lottery tickets. I do not know to which applications the noble Lord is referring.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, as the beneficiaries of the lottery in 1994 were agreeably surprised that the figure was struck as low as 12 per cent, does that suggest to the Minister that, as in so many other things, Ministers at that time got it about right?Lord Brooke of Sutton Mandeville
Who's WhoDod's: My Lords, I should have looked at Who's WhoDod'sLord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, the policy of the Government is to provide council tax benefit for people on low incomes, whether or not they are aged 65 or over. The independent inquiry into local government funding headed by Sir Michael Lyons is due to report by the end of 2005 and is considering how best to reform council tax to make it fairer and more sustainable.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Is he aware that since 1997, when this Government came to power, council tax has risen by more than 76 per cent? Does he agree that the effect on pensioners is that 25 per cent of their state pension is now absorbed by the council tax, and is he not aggrieved that they have been particularly badly hit by this disastrous increase? Will the Minister say whether the Government intend to adopt or, indeed, purloin the Conservative Party's promise to provide a discount of up to £500 to all households consisting of persons over the age of 65?Baroness Hanham
: My Lords, this is a very political Question, if I might say so. It is typical of the Conservatives—the very poorest pensioners in the country, who have received tremendous benefits from the Government, would not gain a penny piece from this Conservative Party plan. They would not receive a penny piece because they do not pay council tax. Let us make that clear. Of course, the one thing that we must do is ensure that more pensioners claim council tax benefit. We accept that there is an issue of people missing out, but pensioners are much better off than they were eight years ago. I accept that council tax has increased, but so has government grant to councils. I can say with the full authority of the Treasury that large council tax increases are a thing of the past.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that one of the other disadvantages of the proposal advanced by the noble Baroness, Lady Hanham, is that poor people of different ages, young poor people, would still be paying the full level of tax? Can he assure us that when the inquiry comes to report, the question of fairness of taxation and the association of the level of taxes with the income of the householder will have been thoroughly considered?Baroness Thomas of Walliswood
1075: My Lords, I can tell the noble Baroness that Sir Michael Lyons's inquiry is open-ended in that respect; it will consider all aspects of council tax and other possible revenue sources for
1075Lord Rooker
: My Lords, will my noble friend take the opportunity to remind the House who introduced the council tax in the first place, in replacement of the poll tax? Secondly, does he agree that it would be totally immoral for the vast majority of Members of this House to receive £500 as a subsidy from any government?Lord Maxton
: My Lords, I was not going so to upset the House as to request that it might be a good idea for most Members to declare an interest in this Question. I do not have one myself at present. Grey power is important. as everyone found out last week, as exercised by your Lordships' House. But the fact is that we must find ways to raise local revenue. We all understood why the rates were unpopular. The poll tax was even more unpopular. The interaction of the council tax is now such that it justifies a good look from a clean sheet and that is what Sir Michael Lyons is doing.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that many of us feel that the nice handouts to councils this year to keep council tax at a reasonable level have a certain relationship with the forthcoming general election? I know that the noble Lord can never speak for the Treasury and says that it is impossible to deal with, but I would like him at least to pass on to the Treasury the feeling that it is all very well to be helping the poorest people now but, after the general election, if council taxes have to go up quite a lot, middle-class people will be very adversely affected. Will the Government then change the criteria for determining who would be helped if Labour is in government?Baroness Gardner of Parkes
: My Lords, let us be clear. Since 1997, spending on pensioners has risen by £10 billion, £7 billion of which is more than if the basic state pension had increased in line with earnings. So we are way ahead in what we have done. We have concentrated a lot on poorer pensioners. As for doing things and then claiming credit at the general election, I fully accept that I think that the winter fuel payment was a good idea and I have no doubt that we may claim some credit for that at the general election. Reducing value added tax on fuel from 8 per cent to 5 per cent was a good idea. Free eye tests for the over-60s was a good idea and I think we might claim some credit for that at the general election. Free TV licences for the over-75s was a good idea and we may well claim credit for it at the general election.Lord Rooker
"having regard to all the circumstances the words, behaviour or material are … likely to be heard".1167"Activities in Scotland in relation to crime".1166: What a treat, my Lords, to follow the speech of the noble Lord, Lord Drayson. It is rare that I speak on a matter of law or anything like this, but I hope that when your Lordships come to read the report of our debate on the Bill everyone will note his
"having regard to all the circumstances the words, behaviour or material are … likely to be heard".1167"Activities in Scotland in relation to crime".1166Lord Lyell
1139Official Report1138: My Lords, it is a pleasure to follow the noble Lord, Lord Harris of Haringey, if only to be able to put the case against the offence of religious hatred.1139Official Report1138Lord Campbell of Alloway
: My Lords, I am much obliged to the noble Lord. Look at the clock. I cannot claim injury time. I cannot answer the noble Lord. Perhaps I may be allowed to finish with one sentence and sit down.Lord Campbell of Alloway
114411431142: My Lords, I begin by declaring my interest as the chairman of the British Muslim Research Centre.114411431142Lord Bhatia
quid pro quoin camera: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble and learned Lord. Before he concludes, I am sure that he is aware that in other countries, such as Germany, this problem is well catered for by specially vetted judges who sit quid pro quoin cameraLord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, he referred to taking religion out of the equation of our law. But is he aware that religion is out of the equation? Currently, Jews are protected only against racist incitement. I agree with what the noble Lord said, even though it was a bit disrespectful of the Law Lords. Sikhs are protected only on the grounds of their ethnicity. Religion is entirely out of the equation, apart from blasphemy.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
"Can it be right that hatred based on deliberate and provocative untruths jabout a person's religion remains unchallenged?"Observer1116Norwood11151114The Satanic Verses"experience shows that criminal laws prohibiting hate speech and expression will encourage intolerance, divisiveness and unreasonable interference with freedom of expression. Fundamentalist Christians, religious Muslims and devout Hindus would then seek to invoke the criminal machinery against each other's religion, tenets or practices. That is what is increasingly happening today in India. We need not more repressive laws but more free speech to combat bigotry and to promote tolerance".Times,Guardian,1113: My Lords, it is a great privilege to follow the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay of Clashfern, with whose speech I agree in its entirety. Unfortunately, I cannot sit down, because there are one or two other things that I need to say. I also very much agree with the thrust of the remarks of the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Portsmouth, especially in relation to the pressing need to repeal the common law offences of blasphemy. In view of the remarks made by the noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay, perhaps I should declare that I am, indeed, a lawyer, a secular Jew and I have worked in race relations for some 40 years. I am not sure whether I am speaking more as a lawyer, as a campaigner for equality or all those things, but I agree with her that no one has a monopoly, whether as a former member of the Security Service or as a former or practising member of the Bar in all these difficult questions."Can it be right that hatred based on deliberate and provocative untruths jabout a person's religion remains unchallenged?"Observer1116Norwood11151114The Satanic Verses"experience shows that criminal laws prohibiting hate speech and expression will encourage intolerance, divisiveness and unreasonable interference with freedom of expression. Fundamentalist Christians, religious Muslims and devout Hindus would then seek to invoke the criminal machinery against each other's religion, tenets or practices. That is what is increasingly happening today in India. We need not more repressive laws but more free speech to combat bigotry and to promote tolerance".Times,Guardian,1113Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I apologise. I was encouraged by other Members of the House to make a single speech dealing with these matters, which is why it took slightly longer. If I may make one last point, I shall then sit down.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, I am not sure that I was aware of that, but Germany was certainly one of the countries that I visited some 10 years ago, and there seemed to be no difficulty then.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
11501149: My Lords, it is a great privilege to follow the marvellous speech of the noble Baroness. I am afraid that what I have to say will be regarded as a dull interlude in a fascinating debate.11501149Lord Lloyd of Berwick
1129Police Review11281127: My Lords, I start by welcoming the Bill in principle. Crime and policing are second only to anti-terrorism in the important work being done by the Government to protect the public. I declare an interest as one who joined the police more than 40 years ago. The 1960s were a
1129Police Review11281127Lord Mackenzie of Framwellgate
: My Lords, with the leave of the House, following the speech of the noble Baroness, Lady Harris of Richmond, my noble friend Lord Triesman will repeat a Statement that is being made in another place on the Commission for Africa report.Lord Davies of Oldham
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)(Arrangement of the Order Paper): My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in the name of my noble friend the Lord President on the Order Paper.(Lord Davies of Oldham.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)(Arrangement of the Order Paper)Lord Davies of Oldham
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day): My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend the Lord President, I beg to move the second Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.(Lord Davies of Oldham.)(No two stages of a Bill to be taken on one day)Lord Davies of Oldham
(Lord Davies of Oldham.)The Baroness Gould of Potternewton—To ask Her Majesty's Government what progress has been made on the plan of action agreed at the United Nations World Conference on Women held in Beijing in 1995.—(Lord Davies of Oldham.): My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend the Lord President, I beg to move the third Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.(Lord Davies of Oldham.)The Baroness Gould of Potternewton—To ask Her Majesty's Government what progress has been made on the plan of action agreed at the United Nations World Conference on Women held in Beijing in 1995.—(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Lord Davies of Oldham
(Lord Davies of Oldham.): My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend the Lord President, I beg to move the fourth Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.(Lord Davies of Oldham.)Lord Davies of Oldham
1103: My Lords, I warmly congratulate the Minister on the report and thank the right honourable gentleman the Prime Minister for the leadership that he has given in shining a sharp light on Africa's problems. Would he not agree that the commission report has very little in it for one group of countries that is all too large in Africa—that is to say, states that have already failed or are failing, for which no amount of aid, investment or trade is going to be any good until the questions of peace and security are properly addressed? Would he agree that it is important to find responses to that. too? There is not an awful lot in the commission report on that subject, which involves some 15 African countries.1103Lord Hannay of Chiswick
11871186: My Lords, this has been a fascinating debate, with more than 40 speeches. I pay
11871186Lord Hunt of Wirral
"fight the battle for the Enlightenment all over again"."Conflict, physical or verbal, often starts when people of different beliefs do not listen to each other. They talk but there is no conversation"."championing their right to be offended".1190"likely to be heard or seen by any person in whom it is likely to stir up racial or religious hatred".1189Times1188: My Lords, I believe that that applies to property not to people. At least, it does at the moment, although given this Government it may well apply to people too."fight the battle for the Enlightenment all over again"."Conflict, physical or verbal, often starts when people of different beliefs do not listen to each other. They talk but there is no conversation"."championing their right to be offended".1190"likely to be heard or seen by any person in whom it is likely to stir up racial or religious hatred".1189Times1188Lord Hunt of Wirral
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Lord, Lord Hannay, that there will need to be the closest fit between the report of the Economic Commission for Africa and the high-level United Nations report. It is very largely true that, whatever forces the African Union can assemble, it will need a good deal more logistic help in order to make sure that they can be deployed rapidly and appropriately. That is not a matter that most African nations can take on with their current financial difficulties. I have no difficulty in giving the assurance that the noble Lord seeks.Lord Triesman
1104: My Lords, in advance of the general election that is rumoured to be happening very soon, I find the question about what would be in the immediate legislative programme—on the assumption that this party wins the election—very hard to answer.1104Lord Triesman
ad hoc: My Lords, I recall that in a recent sequence of Questions in your Lordships' House my noble friend Lady Symons made the point that more political will is needed. Were it in our gift, we would do so. But the critical point made by the Economic Commission on Africa is that African nations should take greater responsibility for determining the outcome of matters in their own continent, with all the forms of assistance that the commission report quite rightly refers to.ad hocLord Triesman
1105: My Lords, the proposals made by my right honourable friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer during his tour of Africa will be among the centrepieces of the EU presidency and the G8 discussions. Right at the heart of them is the concept of a new fund that would be leveraged so as to assist in the forgiving of debt—if I may use that expression—on the understanding that moneys raised would be invested in health and education and would certainly assist in making sure that they are both free, rather than charged to those who use them.1105Lord Triesman
1106: My Lords, I can answer the first question; the second is in some ways much more difficult. We have pledged ourselves to the £25 billion in an immediate sense. We believe that the figure needs to be doubled; we need more than that to accomplish the whole programme. The point about the IFF proposal is that it would get us closer to the £50 billion by almost halving the time to get to our 0.7 per cent commitment. It would concentrate that period of time by leveraging money through the international bonds that would be issued.1106Lord Triesman
: My Lords, satisfactory progress is being made in different respects. I am not sure how best to answer the question. In economic terms—rather than going through a list—a number of countries now have economic growth rates of above 7 per cent. A big batch of countries have growth rates in the 5 per cent to 6 per cent region. Some countries are doing far worse than that, and some, we believe, are going backwards.Lord Triesman
1095ad hoc1094: My Lords, I would like to repeat a Statement made in another place by my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for International Development. The Statement is as follows.1095ad hoc1094Lord Triesman
11011100: My Lords, I have a little over four minutes for about 20 questions. I am grateful to both noble Baronesses for welcoming the report so warmly even with such great circumspection.11011100Lord Triesman
1102: My Lords, I thank the right reverend Prelate for his questions. I assure him and other noble
1102Lord Triesman
: My Lords, what happened to the proposal—which I think was advanced by Mr Gordon Brown when he was on his tour of Africa—that the debts that are to be forgiven should be paid into a virtual fund and only used to make the increases in health and education that are necessary to help African countries attain their Millennium Development Goals? Secondly, will the UK play any role in the increased investment needed to develop treatments and vaccines for AIDS, TB, malaria and parasitic diseases, which the report talks about eliminating?Lord Avebury
: My Lords, Sikhs are a racial group and if they had wanted to, they could have sought to invoke the incitement against racial hatred provisions, but they did not do that.Lord Avebury
: My Lords, does the noble Lord acknowledge that the Select Committee on Religious Offences found that the Attorney-General was not subject to judicial review if he refused a consent to prosecution?Lord Avebury
ex cathedra: My Lords, that argument is constantly repeated and I have never heard it pursued. In other words, people make an ex cathedraLord Avebury
1156"defined by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin".11551154: My Lords, I welcome the proposals on the incitement to religious hatred, which go back a long way—much earlier than the 2002 Act, which has been mentioned, and at least to 1981, when the Law Commission examined religious offences and observed that the concepts of a "racial group" under the Race Relations Act 1976 and membership of a group which is distinguished by a common religion were "closely linked". It said that if, in future, there appeared to be a substantial problem relating to material which was in substance an attack on those holding particular beliefs. it would be a relatively simple matter to amend the Public Order Act accordingly. It was not a proximate matter for consideration at that time, because there were no attempts at that time to incite hatred against groups belonging to any religion, which was not also a racial group in law.1156"defined by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin".11551154Lord Avebury
1130: My Lords, in concert with the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, I wish to address the part of the Bill concerned with animal research organisations. I declare an interest as a patron of the Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments—often referred to as FRAME.1130Lord Soulsby of Swaffham Prior
: My Lords, will the Minister tell us which African countries are making satisfactory progress and what are the conditions under which they are doing so?Lord Mackie of Benshie
11531152: My Lords, it is a great privilege to follow the noble Baroness, whose speech ranged over such wide and meaningful issues.11531152The Duke of Montrose
1112: My Lords, it is obviously a superb opportunity to follow the noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay of Cartvale, and I am the first to acknowledge that lawyers have no monopoly of wisdom in this area. It is therefore important that this House is made up of a number of groupings—and lawyers are but a small, although quite an important, part.1112Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, it does not matter whether you are a Jew, a Sikh, a Muslim or have no faith at all. Violence against you in the street is an offence under the present law and it may be aggravated if it is done on religious grounds. in view of the law that has recently been introduced. So I do think that there is a valid point of distinction between race on the one hand and religion on the other. I would not engage in a conversation with someone seeking to change his race, but one might well do so with someone seeking to change his religion. The noble Baroness, Lady Ramsay, pointed out that the Bill attacks not only the people but religious practices. Practices are carried out by people and if you are criticising, and are entitled to criticise, religious practices, that would involve the people who practised them. The attempt to distinguish between practice and people is a thin distinction indeed.Lord Mackay of Clashfern
1173"To entrust the role to civilians would be to downgrade its importance. It would send a message to the force generally that the significance of the role was reduced. That would be a deplorable development".1172raison dêtre: My Lords, it is appropriate that I declare my close association with the police, albeit that that association is almost exclusively confined to the traffic police.1173"To entrust the role to civilians would be to downgrade its importance. It would send a message to the force generally that the significance of the role was reduced. That would be a deplorable development".1172raison dêtreViscount Simon
1163Official Report,"The court—if it gets that far after the matter has been considered by the Attorney-General—will have to consider both sets of rights and, where necessary, balance one against the other. The courts have a great deal of experience in carrying out that delicate balancing act and considering the way in which those provisions interact, and they will continue to do so in this area as they do in many others".—[Official Report,1162: My Lords, it will not surprise the House to hear that I want to speak about Schedule 10. First, I pay tribute to my noble friend Lord Bhatia to whom I always listen with very great respect when he says that there is a problem in relation to the Muslim community in this country. I believe that we were all persuaded by what he said and by the witnesses who came to the Select Committee to explain further what the problem was.1163Official Report,"The court—if it gets that far after the matter has been considered by the Attorney-General—will have to consider both sets of rights and, where necessary, balance one against the other. The courts have a great deal of experience in carrying out that delicate balancing act and considering the way in which those provisions interact, and they will continue to do so in this area as they do in many others".—[Official Report,1162Viscount Colville of Culross
: My Lords, I, too, thank the Government for encouraging the report and warmly welcome it. I must declare an interest as I chair the board of Christian Aid.The Lord Bishop of Chelmsford
"We consider that the availability to the public of regularly updated good quality information on what animal experiments are done and why is vital to create an atmosphere in which the issue of animal experimentation can be discussed productively".Science and Society1161"It is morally acceptable for human beings to use other animals, but it is morally wrong to cause them unnecessary or avoidable suffering"."Virtually all witnesses agreed that the United Kingdom has the tightest system of regulation in the world".: My Lords, I suspect that my intervention will be rather more supportive of the Government than the speech made by the noble Lord, Lord Desai, which I greatly enjoyed. I, like the noble Lord, Lord Turnberg, and my noble friend Lord Soulsby of Swaffham Prior, will confine my remarks to the parts of the Bill that refer to redressing the damage and the dangers caused by animal extremists and the problems that they cause particularly to the biosciences and to those even loosely connected with research using live animals."We consider that the availability to the public of regularly updated good quality information on what animal experiments are done and why is vital to create an atmosphere in which the issue of animal experimentation can be discussed productively".Science and Society1161"It is morally acceptable for human beings to use other animals, but it is morally wrong to cause them unnecessary or avoidable suffering"."Virtually all witnesses agreed that the United Kingdom has the tightest system of regulation in the world".The Earl of Selborne
11711170: My Lords, I welcome the creation of the Serious Organised Crime Agency. I should declare that in my past life, I have worked with the police and with Customs and Excise. Funnily enough, when overseas I once tried to put together something rather similar to these provisions.11711170Viscount Slim
: My Lords, surely the ultimate deterrent is to be towed away?Lord Harris of Haringey
11371136: First, my Lords, I declare an interest as a member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, and of the executive of the Association of Police Authorities.11371136Lord Harris of Haringey
1122small"I call Christianity the one great curse, the one great innermost corruption, the one great instinct of revenge, for which no means is poisonous, stealthy, subterranean, smallThe Da Vinci Code,"Defamations of the character of the Prophet Mohammad is a direct insult and an abuse of the Muslim community".1121"having regard to all the circumstances the words, behaviour or material are … likely to be heard or seen by any person in whom they are … likely to stir up religious hatred".Times1120: My Lords, there are several things in this Bill that I support. I strongly support the creation of the Serious Organised Crime Agency where police, immigration and Customs officers and the National Crime Squad will come together. When we set out on this path a long time ago there were a lot of turf wars. It took a long time to get to that stage. The time was then not ripe, but it is ripe now. I congratulate the Government on that.1122small"I call Christianity the one great curse, the one great innermost corruption, the one great instinct of revenge, for which no means is poisonous, stealthy, subterranean, smallThe Da Vinci Code,"Defamations of the character of the Prophet Mohammad is a direct insult and an abuse of the Muslim community".1121"having regard to all the circumstances the words, behaviour or material are … likely to be heard or seen by any person in whom they are … likely to stir up religious hatred".Times1120Lord Baker of Dorking
"We half believers of our casual truths".: My Lords, it is very difficult to prove racial hatred when a Sikh playwright writes a play about a Sikh community and performs it in a Sikh community. I would have thought that rather astonishing."We half believers of our casual truths".Lord Baker of Dorking
"severe contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule".11081107"there is a gap in the law as it stands",: My Lords. I want to concentrate on the offence of incitement to religious hatred, which is once again before us. I do so partly because I had the privilege of serving on the Select Committee on Religious Offences set up following the removal of the clause on religious hatred from the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Bill of 2001 and the subsequent production of the Religious Offences Bill by the noble Lord, Lord Avebury."severe contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule".11081107"there is a gap in the law as it stands",The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
1148: My Lords, I would not say that the Church of England or the Anglican Church is in retreat. What I said earlier was carefully balanced in a productive way. If we have this law for religious hatred, our specific protection needs to be
1148The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
: My Lords, with the greatest of respect, "which art in Heaven" is 16th-century English, and "who art" is 17th-century English. It is a small point, which a historian who loves the prayer book can make.The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
1119: My Lords, this is a large and important Bill but, having listened carefully to the debate so far, I shall not chance my arm by speaking about the parts of it that deal with religion; and I shall certainly not take on the lawyers. I hope that your Lordships do not think that I am lowering the tone if I focus on just one topic, which is the part of the Bill that deals with the protection of those who undertake research using animals—a part of the Bill that I strongly endorse.1119Lord Turnberg
1175: My Lords, I am most grateful to the right reverend Prelate, but on these temporal Benches I have certain advisors, such as the noble Lord, Lord Pilkington, an ex-canon, who was kind enough to get me text and verse that I could say both in Latin and in English on these subjects.1175Lord Selsdon
1174things that you can touch or see".MasculinMasculinFemininaFeminina"Abstract nouns in 'io' call
things that you can touch or see".MasculinMasculinFemininaFeminina"Abstract nouns in 'io' call: My Lords, what a wonderful Bill! It reminds me of almost my first Christmas stocking, a rather darned, grey one, which had things in that you fiddled around with in the dark. I found that I did not like Brazil nuts, or oranges really, although they were rare.1174things that you can touch or see".MasculinMasculinFemininaFeminina"Abstract nouns in 'io' call
things that you can touch or see".MasculinMasculinFemininaFeminina"Abstract nouns in 'io' callLord Selsdon
: My Lords, when the Minister introduced the Statement he said that the point was to hold the world to account. Can he say more about who is going to hold Africa to account? In the debate on Zimbabwe last Wednesday, the noble Baroness, Lady Crawley, said that every time the British Government raised the question of Zimbabwe in UN committee discussions, it was blocked by the African countries. It is not just Mugabe, all the other leaders are blocking progress in Africa. What will happen on that?The Earl of Caithness
: My Lords, perhaps I may respectfully say to the noble Lord, Lord Lester, that every Back-Bencher so far has kept within the eight minutes proposed by my noble friend the Chief Whip, which would enable us to leave the Chamber at 11.30 p.m.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
1160Mandla v Dowell Lee,1159: My Lords, my all-too-brief career as a government loyalist is about to come to an end. Although I shall come to that, let me first say that, along with my noble friend Lord Turnberg and the noble Lord, Lord Soulsby of Swaffham Prior, I support the animal rights clauses in the Bill.1160Mandla v Dowell Lee,1159Lord Desai
Times1177If that can happen now, under the existing race laws, imagine what a new law on religion could do. Any law which specifically requires the police to consider the legitimacy of religious speech will cause trouble, and will set religious groups against one another".One Muslim (not the direct recipient of the literature) had complained to the police. It was clear that the officers felt under pressure to find a way of stopping us. Only after making an official complaint via my solicitors did the police back down and admit the matter was handled insensitively by the junior officers. If we had stopped distributing the literature, as the police seemed to want, our freedom of religious expression would have been taken away."Our church is involved in distributing Christian literature to local households. Muslims in the area also send out Muslim literature. Although our literature is sensitively written for those from a Muslim background, two young policemen attempted to tell us it was a 'serious racial offence' to distribute it. They mentioned that the offence carried a seven year jail term.1176: My Lords, it is a formidable task for me to follow the eloquence of the noble Lord, Lord Selsdon, but I shall try. There are many aspects of the Bill that I support. Like other noble Lords, I shall confine my remarks to Schedule 10, because I shall approach the issue from the viewpoint of ethnic minority groups who have contacted me. Most of them are Christian and share their faith with their peers who belong to other faith groups or to none. Clause 124 relates to Schedule 10 of the Bill which seeks to replace Part 3 of the Public Order Act 1986, Section 64 dealing with racial hatred offences, with one to cover hatred against persons on racial or religious grounds. I support that aim and it should be extended to protect groups of people who currently are not protected by racial hatred offences, such as followers of faiths, notably Muslims, and those with no belief in religion.Times1177If that can happen now, under the existing race laws, imagine what a new law on religion could do. Any law which specifically requires the police to consider the legitimacy of religious speech will cause trouble, and will set religious groups against one another".One Muslim (not the direct recipient of the literature) had complained to the police. It was clear that the officers felt under pressure to find a way of stopping us. Only after making an official complaint via my solicitors did the police back down and admit the matter was handled insensitively by the junior officers. If we had stopped distributing the literature, as the police seemed to want, our freedom of religious expression would have been taken away."Our church is involved in distributing Christian literature to local households. Muslims in the area also send out Muslim literature. Although our literature is sensitively written for those from a Muslim background, two young policemen attempted to tell us it was a 'serious racial offence' to distribute it. They mentioned that the offence carried a seven year jail term.1176Lord Chan
1185118411831182: My Lords, we now come to the concluding part of this important debate.1185118411831182Lord Dholakia
11791178: My Lords, I will restrict my remarks to Schedule 10, as have many of your Lordships. This is a very serious Bill covering a lot of areas, but I too shall restrict my comments to the provisions on hatred against persons on racial or religious grounds. First, I thank the Government for having the courage to include this new offence in the Bill. I acknowledge all of the work that the Government have done to address this serious anomaly in our law, both in previous reports, including the University of Derby report, and in Select Committee and other reports.11791178Lord Ahmed
: My Lords, I wonder whether the noble Baroness will give way. The Minister is failing to listen to her speech and is just joking with her colleague. I do not think that that is apt at this moment.Lord Vinson
I am doing an ordinary job in a legitimate industry and I am being threatened purely because of this. It should not be allowed".You feel very vulnerable every time you leave the house and worry that someone is following you.It did affect us dreadfully. It really is frightening and life-changing. I was off work for some time. For a while I could not go out of the house.The neighbours have also been targeted and have been told their neighbour is an animal abuser or a child molester.It culminated … with an explosion outside the house in which both my car and my husband's car were firebombed."It started with a threatening phone call … It progressed to threats through the post, which got more and more aggressive as time went on.11651164: My Lords, I rise to speak in support of the clauses in the Bill that aim to address the growing threat of animal rights extremism. I declare an interest, in that during my career I have experienced this problem in my past roles as chief executive of a biotechnology company and chairman of the BioIndustry Association. I am no longer active in business, but I remain convinced of the urgent need to tackle this problem.I am doing an ordinary job in a legitimate industry and I am being threatened purely because of this. It should not be allowed".You feel very vulnerable every time you leave the house and worry that someone is following you.It did affect us dreadfully. It really is frightening and life-changing. I was off work for some time. For a while I could not go out of the house.The neighbours have also been targeted and have been told their neighbour is an animal abuser or a child molester.It culminated … with an explosion outside the house in which both my car and my husband's car were firebombed."It started with a threatening phone call … It progressed to threats through the post, which got more and more aggressive as time went on.11651164Lord Drayson
1158"that he must or must not keep observation on this place or that … The responsibility of law enforcement lies on him. He is answerable to the law alone"."No Minister of the Crown can tell him"—1157"Commissioner's Call for a British FBI".: My Lords, I shall not keep your Lordships long with my contribution to this most important debate, but I hope that what I do say may have desirable and useful effects and give us pause for thought on the future hierarchical structure of a national Serious Organised Crime Agency and on its methods of working, selection of targets and processing of suspects and persons arrested for crime.1158"that he must or must not keep observation on this place or that … The responsibility of law enforcement lies on him. He is answerable to the law alone"."No Minister of the Crown can tell him"—1157"Commissioner's Call for a British FBI".Lord Imbert
11261125: My Lords, I begin by declaring an interest as a serving officer in the Metropolitan Police and as someone who has worked operationally with both the National Crime Squad and Customs and Excise, two constituent parts of the proposed Serious Organised Crime Agency.11261125The Earl of Rosslyn
Times1141The Satanic Verses1140: My Lords, there are many things to welcome in the Bill. I broadly support Parts 1, 2 and 3 and certainly the animal aspects of Part 4. However, a couple of issues give me concern.Times1141The Satanic Verses1140Lord Plant of Highfield
: My Lords, so that we can get the scale in focus, can the Minister tell us whether the correct figure is £25 billion, as stated in the resources paragraph in the executive summary on page 16, or £75 billion as in the exemplification of it on page 353? What proportion of that figure would be produced by 0.7 per cent of GDP as proposed? Does he recognise that if the corresponding benefits to us do not immediately flow from the output payment, the effect on our economy will be negative? Is a concordat therefore required between all political parties on what the quantum should be so that it does not get eroded in election after election?Lord Elton
ipso facto1135Mutatis mutandis,"In this Part 'religious hatred' means hatred against a group of persons defined by reference to religious belief".1134: My Lords, I agree with much of the core business of the Bill. However, I should add that I agree with the main range of points made in the speeches of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay, the noble Lords, Lord Lester and Lord Baker, and the noble Baroness, Lady D'Souza.,lb/>
I begin by asking for the indulgence—and possibly the forgiveness—of the right reverend Prelates who are normally in their places on the Benches designated for them. It is not sufficient to plead that some of my best friends are bishops—true though that be, perhaps. There is a story told of a bishop who rose to preach in a very distinguished city church and, almost before he could utter the opening words of incantation, a voice cried out—not from the wilderness, this was a city
ipso facto1135Mutatis mutandis,"In this Part 'religious hatred' means hatred against a group of persons defined by reference to religious belief".1134Lord Sutherland of Houndwood
Official Report,"provided in house, they will not be subject to regulation because it will be assumed that the company, the football club, will have properly trained them and will be responsible for improving standards and so forth".—[Official Report,"Over-zealous interpretation of regulation by Government regulators and industry bodies is one of the factors leading to layers of red tape winding their way around businesses and the public. This regulatory creep is the 'hidden menace' of red tape".WA 68.Official Report,"is working and football stadia in England and Wales are now among the safest and most secure in the world".—[WA 68.Official Report,11691168: My Lords, I am very pleased to speak in this important debate on a Bill which I am sure will lead to added protections for Britain's communities. As my noble friend the Minister has already pointed out, this Government have a very strong record of tackling crime and have introduced several pieces of legislation which collectively have helped to reduce crime levels and target criminals.Official Report,"provided in house, they will not be subject to regulation because it will be assumed that the company, the football club, will have properly trained them and will be responsible for improving standards and so forth".—[Official Report,"Over-zealous interpretation of regulation by Government regulators and industry bodies is one of the factors leading to layers of red tape winding their way around businesses and the public. This regulatory creep is the 'hidden menace' of red tape".WA 68.Official Report,"is working and football stadia in England and Wales are now among the safest and most secure in the world".—[WA 68.Official Report,11691168Lord Pendry
To speak out for me".and there was no one leftThen they came for me-Because I was not a trade unionistand I did not speak outThen they came for the trade unionistsBecause I was not a communistAnd I did not speak outThen they came for the communistsBecause I was not a Jewand I did not speak out"First they came for the Jews1124"Step up to the front line, burn the men who have sex with men from behind. Shoot queers"."I'm dreaming of a new Jamaica, come to execute all the gays"."Hang lesbians with a long piece of rope".1123: My Lords, this is an important Bill. Like many others, I would like to focus on the clauses dealing with incitement to religious hatred contained in Schedule 10.To speak out for me".and there was no one leftThen they came for me-Because I was not a trade unionistand I did not speak outThen they came for the trade unionistsBecause I was not a communistAnd I did not speak outThen they came for the communistsBecause I was not a Jewand I did not speak out"First they came for the Jews1124"Step up to the front line, burn the men who have sex with men from behind. Shoot queers"."I'm dreaming of a new Jamaica, come to execute all the gays"."Hang lesbians with a long piece of rope".1123Lord Alli
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for giving way. Will she say a little more about the vicinity? If it is up to one kilometre, it will include Trafalgar Square as well as Parliament Square, which is the classical, traditional place for spontaneous demonstration. In the light of the praise which many of us heaped upon Ukraine, for example, for demonstrating about the dubiously elected government, it is a little worrying to see a spontaneous demonstration effectively ruled out in Trafalgar Square.Baroness Williams of Crosby
1093Police Review,1092"No Minister of the Crown can tell him that he must, or must not, keep observation on this place or that; or that he must, or must not, prosecute this man or that one. Nor can any Police Authority tell him so. The responsibility of law enforcement lies on him"."in relation to Scotland, the directive powers proposed for the Home Secretary in the Bill have been replaced with similar powers for Scottish Ministers. In effect, this would permit Scottish Ministers to direct that an Agency rather than a police force deal with a serious or organised crime"."They will lose political independence and be directly accountable to the Home Secretary, who can dictate policing priorities on the ground. This sets a dangerous precedent for the future of policing in England and Wales and destroys the strength of the current balanced tripartite system"."This Bill will change forever the unique characteristics that have defined British policing for over 175 years; political impartiality, proper accountability. a duty to act and report both on and off duty and a bar on industrial action.1091: My Lords, there is much to support in the Bill, although I cannot help feeling that it would have been preferable to restrict it to setting up the Serious Organised Crime Agency rather than tagging on a whole multitude of other measures. I shall today specifically exclude Part 4 of the Bill, which deals with public orders and conduct in public places. My noble friend Lord Lester of Herne Hill has done much work on equality and human rights legislation, as we have heard, and he will set out our position on this part of the Bill, with particular reference to the provision on incitement to religious hatred.1093Police Review,1092"No Minister of the Crown can tell him that he must, or must not, keep observation on this place or that; or that he must, or must not, prosecute this man or that one. Nor can any Police Authority tell him so. The responsibility of law enforcement lies on him"."in relation to Scotland, the directive powers proposed for the Home Secretary in the Bill have been replaced with similar powers for Scottish Ministers. In effect, this would permit Scottish Ministers to direct that an Agency rather than a police force deal with a serious or organised crime"."They will lose political independence and be directly accountable to the Home Secretary, who can dictate policing priorities on the ground. This sets a dangerous precedent for the future of policing in England and Wales and destroys the strength of the current balanced tripartite system"."This Bill will change forever the unique characteristics that have defined British policing for over 175 years; political impartiality, proper accountability. a duty to act and report both on and off duty and a bar on industrial action.1091Baroness Harris of Richmond
1146"these provisions will protect the believer not the belief"."these are necessary legislative measures to ensure that all are treated equally before the law",1145: My Lords, I begin by congratulating the noble Lord, Lord Bhatia, on an important and thoughtful speech.1146"these provisions will protect the believer not the belief"."these are necessary legislative measures to ensure that all are treated equally before the law",1145Baroness Gibson of Market Rasen
"There is nothing to suggest any racist behaviour/actions associated with the church as they seek to promote the Christian religion".The officers asked the householder's name and then pulled out a copy of the literature and said they needed to come in and talk about it. The Police Officers stated that this was designated a serious racial incident. They explained that new legislation allowed anybody, (citing a post man or any other member of the public) to claim that a crime was racist, even if the original victim did not make the claim. They mentioned that the offence carried a seven year prison sentence and that if an offence had been committed the church members' names involved would be on the Police records. On leaving they stated that the DCI would be in touch if they were not satisfied with the answers given"."At 7.30 p.m. on Saturday 22 June 2002 two Police Officers called at the home of the member of the church who had opened our Post Office box for the witness we give in our community under the name Rochdale Word of Life.1180"For over 40 years, I have (with others) been preaching the Gospel on the Cornhill in Ipswich … About 18 months ago we were approached by Community Police Officers … my
1180: My Lords, while I support most of this Bill, I, like so many other Members of your Lordships' House, strongly oppose those aspects relating to incitement to religious hatred. My primary concern is the threat to one of our most cherished freedoms, freedom of speech. There is a real danger that this legislation will inhibit criticism of religion, affirmation of religious belief and satirical or comic discussions, despite the Government's assurances to the opposite effect."There is nothing to suggest any racist behaviour/actions associated with the church as they seek to promote the Christian religion".The officers asked the householder's name and then pulled out a copy of the literature and said they needed to come in and talk about it. The Police Officers stated that this was designated a serious racial incident. They explained that new legislation allowed anybody, (citing a post man or any other member of the public) to claim that a crime was racist, even if the original victim did not make the claim. They mentioned that the offence carried a seven year prison sentence and that if an offence had been committed the church members' names involved would be on the Police records. On leaving they stated that the DCI would be in touch if they were not satisfied with the answers given"."At 7.30 p.m. on Saturday 22 June 2002 two Police Officers called at the home of the member of the church who had opened our Post Office box for the witness we give in our community under the name Rochdale Word of Life.1180"For over 40 years, I have (with others) been preaching the Gospel on the Cornhill in Ipswich … About 18 months ago we were approached by Community Police Officers … my
1180Baroness Cox
"It is obvious that criticism of one's religion is likely to offend, but just as Muslims should be entitled to aggressively criticise other faiths, likewise those same faiths should be afforded the right to voice their concerns about Islam … Who, after all, would give credence to a religion that appears so fragile it can only exist if protected by a bodyguard of lawyers"."This legislation is undermining those religious freedoms it is intended to protect".1181: My Lords, I am grateful to both the noble Lord and to the Minister, because I was
"It is obvious that criticism of one's religion is likely to offend, but just as Muslims should be entitled to aggressively criticise other faiths, likewise those same faiths should be afforded the right to voice their concerns about Islam … Who, after all, would give credence to a religion that appears so fragile it can only exist if protected by a bodyguard of lawyers"."This legislation is undermining those religious freedoms it is intended to protect".1181Baroness Cox
: My Lords, I apologise to the noble Baroness, but the time is up for Questions.Baroness Crawley
"Dissent and indeed hate will eventually be expressed; sadly in Sri Lanka, we have witnessed far too much evidence that censoring hate from public discourse only banishes it to more deadly fora".1118"material is likely to be heard or seen by any person in whom … it is … likely to stir up racial or religious hatred",1117: My Lords, I, too, want to speak briefly about the amendments set out in Schedule 10. Words are powerful; they cause injury, often as hurtful as physical attack. Equally, they form the best defence against ignorance, bigotry and intolerance. In those countries where hate speech laws, whether directed at religious or racist hate speech, prevail, the underlying conditions of discrimination and hatred do not seem to have improved."Dissent and indeed hate will eventually be expressed; sadly in Sri Lanka, we have witnessed far too much evidence that censoring hate from public discourse only banishes it to more deadly fora".1118"material is likely to be heard or seen by any person in whom … it is … likely to stir up racial or religious hatred",1117Baroness D'Souza
: My Lords, this well written report is a new way of looking at Africa that focuses on being just to Africa. In that connection, we need to crack down on our part in corruption. I remind your Lordships of my interest in Transparency International. When is the UK's new law on corruption likely to appear?Baroness Whitaker
1151: My Lords, I particularly welcome Clause 92 of this excellent Bill, which, in enabling mutual assistance, does away with what I hope is the last obstacle to the UK's ratification of the UN Conventions against Transnational Organised Crime and against Corruption. I remind your Lordships of my interest in Transparency International. Can my noble friend assure the House that the UK will now be able to ratify the Convention against Corruption? It is important that a number of OECD countries are among the first 30 countries to ratify, as these will determine the implementation systems; none of the 19 which have ratified so far is from the OECD. We shall lose out if there is not a balance and, also, surely the UK should be seen among the leaders in combating international corruption.1151Baroness Whitaker
10901089cordon sanitaire10881087"This is an issue that goes beyond semantics. It is about irrevocably changing the unique characteristics that have defined a British police officer for over 175 years: political impartiality. proper accountability, a duty to act and report both on and off duty, and a bar on industrial action"."whether a court would willingly hold that the conferment of a power on an officer of SOCA had the indirect effect of removing limits on that power"."one of the biggest changes in UK law enforcement since the 1960s".1086: My Lords, this promises to be an action-packed Bill in what may be the dying days of this Parliament. We support the establishment of the Serious Organised Crime Agency. We have indeed long advocated the creation of an effective agency that should be fundamental to Britain's ability to fight serious and organised crime. I join with the Minister today in paying tribute to the dedication of all those who work in the police, intelligence, immigration and revenue services day after day, seeking to extricate the evil of organised crime groups from our society.10901089cordon sanitaire10881087"This is an issue that goes beyond semantics. It is about irrevocably changing the unique characteristics that have defined a British police officer for over 175 years: political impartiality. proper accountability, a duty to act and report both on and off duty, and a bar on industrial action"."whether a court would willingly hold that the conferment of a power on an officer of SOCA had the indirect effect of removing limits on that power"."one of the biggest changes in UK law enforcement since the 1960s".1086Baroness Anelay of St Johns
1099: My Lords, I, too, thank the Minister for repeating the Statement made in the other place. I wish also to commend Bob Geldof for driving this forward. He has not allowed the 20th anniversary of LiveAid to be marked by how little has been achieved, but by what we must do now.1099Baroness Northover
11101109: My Lords, this Bill is an attempt to give everyone in the community the right to live in a safe and secure environment free from the fear of crime. I can deal in the time allowed with only a few points, but as a general comment, I should like to say that in a democratic society everyone has the right to voice their opinion and to demonstrate, but human rights and freedom of speech and assembly must be balanced by citizens' responsibilities to others. No one has the right to incite hatred against religious groups, to intimidate or harass others going about their lawful business, or indeed to disrupt the working of Parliament. All faith communities and those working in the bioscience industry deserve the full protection of the criminal law when their human rights are threatened.11101109Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale
1098"It is a voluntary process based on self assessment".1097"was aware that corruption could undermine its commitment to the process, but was working to stem the vice"."commencement of intensive work on a process central to Kenya's search for greater democracy arid economic growth"."corruption is a systemic challenge facing many African leaders"1096: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for repeating the Statement made in another place by Mr Hilary Benn. After a busy and sleepless few days, the Africa Commission report has given us extensive weekend reading. We welcome it, and thank its authors. It provides a thorough, detailed and perceptive analysis of the problems which confront Africa. Although, in total, there are more people in Asia and South America who subsist on less than a dollar a day, only in Africa is poverty increasing and life expectancy falling, caused by disease, poor governance and conflict. This report has covered the ground comprehensively. Its analysis is excellent, but I fear that it risks being more of an academic work than a programme for action.1098"It is a voluntary process based on self assessment".1097"was aware that corruption could undermine its commitment to the process, but was working to stem the vice"."commencement of intensive work on a process central to Kenya's search for greater democracy arid economic growth"."corruption is a systemic challenge facing many African leaders"1096Baroness Rawlings
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1085: My Lords, we are conscious that this issue has been raised and we continue to look at it openly. However, the current view is that that distance is the most appropriate, bearing in mind that it does not rule out demonstrations but that it will allow the commissioner to attach conditions as may be
(Baroness Scotland of Asthal.)1085Baroness Scotland of Asthal
[Official Report,"Legislation to outlaw incitement to religious hatred is welcome".—[Official Report,[Official Report,"The Minister would have our full support if legislation that was separate from the anti-terrorism Bill was involved".—[Official Report,10841083108210811080ex officio10791078One Step Ahead,: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.[Official Report,"Legislation to outlaw incitement to religious hatred is welcome".—[Official Report,[Official Report,"The Minister would have our full support if legislation that was separate from the anti-terrorism Bill was involved".—[Official Report,10841083108210811080ex officio10791078One Step Ahead,The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
Shabbos-goy.: My Lords, I take objection to that comment. I was merely seeking advice from my noble and learned friend as to whether I should disclose that not only am I associated, as is the noble Lord, with a number of Christian organisations, but I have also, in the past, been a Shabbos-goy.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
119811971196119511941193per se,11921191Shabbas goy: My Lords, this has been a most intriguing and worthwhile debate. I have listened with great care since 3.7 p.m. to all that has been said. I should formally make a declaration of interest, because like the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay of Clashfern, I am a member of the Lawyers' Christian Fellowship, the Thomas More Society and various other Christian and ecumenical inter-faith associations, not least for many years being a 119811971196119511941193per se,11921191Shabbas goyBaroness Scotland of Asthal
11331132: My Lords, I should start by declaring an interest as chair of both my own local police authority in Lancashire and of the national Association of Police Authorities, which represents all police authorities in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.11331132Baroness Henig
: My Lords, as we all know, the poorest of the poor in Africa—Baroness Flather
Oz,1147: My Lords, I intend to speak entirely about the new offence of incitement to religious hatred. I came to this country more than 50 years ago. I was very fortunate because I joined UCL. I did not know its history at that time but noble Lords will know that it is not affiliated to any Christian church. It was the only college not affiliated to any Christian church and it was the first to take in women. It had a profound effect on me. The whole atmosphere was inclusive and liberal. It was a very long time ago, more than 50 years, but in my entire university career, I never felt that I was an outsider, a woman or that I had a different religion. I just felt part of the college.Oz,1147Baroness Flather
: My Lords, gather dust it certainly will, or we can lose it—I do not think that it will matter at all. I do not want to see separate schools in this country. I do not want to see women treated worse than women in the mainstream. I want this country to remain the country I came to, and to improve: to be more cohesive and to have a central ethos that binds us all to which we owe our allegiance.Baroness Flather
Hereditary Peers; by-elections having received a Writ of Summons in accordance with Standing Order 10 (Hereditary Peers; by-electionsLord De Manley
: My Lords, from 1 April 2005, NHS primary care trusts will commission primary health services in almost all publicly run prisons in England. Mainstreaming prison health services in that way will bring about further improvements in the treatment of diabetics in prison, in line with the National Service Framework for Diabetes. Improvements will include better identification on reception, the establishment of specialist diabetes clinics in prison and closer links with NHS diabetes services, the introduction of retinopathy screening and practice-based registers, and improved continuity of treatment on transfer or release.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department of Health (Lord Warner)
: My Lords, I thank my noble friend for that Answer and for the welcome news that he conveys. However, does he appreciate that at the moment only 29 per cent of PCTs have a dedicated policy on diabetic prisoners? That leads to a mismatch between custodial and clinical care, which results in diabetic prisoners not doing their blood sugars well and having wrong diets, wrong meal times and, on occasion, inadequate physical exercise. In addition to what he proposed, will he study and possibly replicate the good practice at HMP Littlehey in Huntingdon, where supervision and clinics are provided in close partnership with specialist diabetologists from local hospitals?Lord Harrison
: My Lords, my noble friend is right. HMP Littlehey ran one of the 18 pilot schemes, which we will roll out nationally in April. As he says, it has been a great success. The improvements taking place in prison health services have been mentioned by the Chief Inspector of Prisons. Some of the improvements in places such as Littlehey are shown in Diabetes UK's bimonthly magazine for March and April.Lord Warner
1200: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there are now specially trained
1200Baroness Masham of Ilton
: My Lords, my grasp of the inner workings of the Prison Service do not extend to answering the noble Baroness's question on the availability of Splenda, but I will look into it. She made a more general point about nurses. We have made the transfer to the NHS taking responsibility for prison healthcare so that, from April, primary care trusts will be able to commission the services most appropriate for prisoners in their circumstances. The kind of ideas that she suggests will be one of the things that they will consider, I am sure.Lord Warner
: My Lords, what progress has there been on the recommendation from the prison health service in 2002 that there should be a register of diabetic prisoners? In the Minister's response to the noble Lord, he talked about public prisons. What is the position in contracted-out prisons?Baroness Barker
: My Lords, one matter that is being improved is that there should be a register of prisoners with diabetes. I cannot say what the precise arrangements are, but that is certainly one requirement that should be put in place. Another improvement is that a lot of work has been done on transfer out. An example is ensuring that NHS Direct credit cards are available. Prisoners can fill in a claim form—NHS HC1—for help with healthcare costs. Prisoners are also helped to get back on to GPs' lists on release.Lord Warner
: My Lords, now that the Department of Health has responsibility for healthcare in the Prison Service, will the Minister assure us that inmates will have access and the opportunity to take up the department's advice on healthy living, such as access to five portions of fruit and vegetables a day and regular exercise?Baroness Morgan of Drefelin
: My Lords, I am sure that primary care trusts will consider that issue when they consider services for the health of prisoners. I can reassure my noble friend by saying that the Government have put extra resources into prison healthcare. About £40 million extra will be spent over the next year or two on strengthening those services.Lord Warner
: My Lords, will my noble friend work with his colleagues in the Prison Service to ensure that prison staff training is adequate? For instance, a distinction should be able to be made between a prisoner having a hypoglycaemic reaction and one who is simply acting up.Lord Harrison
1201: My Lords, I am sure that the Prison Service will take account of those issues in the training of staff to achieve better integration between the
1201Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Minister mentioned that almost all prisons are now covered by national health services. Which prisons or which categories of prisons are not yet covered?Lord Hylton
: My Lords, there are two or three, but I cannot remember which, so I shall write to the noble Lord.Lord Warner
: My Lords, we have set clear standards that require single-sex accommodation to be provided. Data collected for 2003 show that 97 per cent of National Health Service trusts provide single-sex accommodation. This is defined as single-sex sleeping areas, separate bathroom and toilet facilities for men and women and, for those trusts providing mental health services, safe facilities for those who are mentally ill.Lord Warner
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that press reports in recent weeks have indicated that there is a doubt about the 97 per cent figure? Does he recall telling this House only last Wednesday that his Government keep their promises? Can he explain why a promise made in 1997 and again in 2001 to abolish all mixed-sex wards has still not been kept? The promise was made eight long years ago and those wards still exist.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
1202: My Lords, I am not sure that I recall all of the noble Baroness's lengthy questions, but I shall do my best to respond to their spirit. I remind her and the House that the Conservative Party's policy on mixed-sex accommodation had exactly the same
1202Lord Warner
: My Lords, I welcome the information given by my noble friend the Minister, but I regret the fact that there are still some people who have to stay in mixed-sex wards. What are the Government doing in the interim to ensure that the dignity and privacy of patients who have to be in those wards are maintained?Baroness Royall of Blaisdon
Sunday Telegraph.: My Lords, I shall pick up a matter raised by the noble Baroness, Lady Knight—namely, the misreporting she described which, I think, appeared in the Sunday Telegraph.Lord Warner
: My Lords, in mental health wards there is a high risk of problems with mixed-sex wards. Is the Minister entirely convinced that all our mental health hospitals have no mixed-sex wards?Lord Chan
: My Lords, the information that I have is that compliance with our guidance in mental health accommodation is even higher than in acute units. The latest data show that 99 per cent of mental health wards comply with our objectives.Lord Warner
: My Lords, the Minister will be aware of the MIND report in September 2004, in which 25 per cent of mental health patients recorded having been in mixed-sex wards. Can he confirm that a significant number of children and young people are still held in mixed-sex psychiatric wards?Baroness Barker
1203: My Lords, I do not have the data on children in psychiatric hospitals, but I can tell the noble Baroness that the MIND report used a different
1203Lord Warner
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that, last year, I stayed in one of the 3 per cent. of hospitals to which he referred, and that I was in a mixed ward? I agree with the noble Baroness opposite. It was extremely embarrassing; we all felt very uncomfortable.Baroness Sharpies
: My Lords, I am sorry, but if the noble Baroness would tell me where she was, I shall let her know what the circumstances were.Lord Warner
: My Lords—Baroness Thomas of Walliswood
: My Lords, this question goes back a long way. Perhaps the Minister will recall that in 1995 1 promoted, and this House passed—although the Commons did not—a Bill to outlaw mixed-sex wards. That was 10 years ago. Despite what Ministers on both sides of this House have said and the promises that they have made to get rid of such wards, they still exist. Will my noble friend the Minister assure me that staff in the National Health Service are being appraised of the view of this House, and of the population generally, that those promises should be carried out fully?Lord Stoddart of Swindon
: My Lords, I think that people are being a little unfair on the NHS in this area. The NHS is confronted with the fact that this will go on under whichever government are in office. People will be admitted as emergency cases and hospitals will have to do what is right clinically and find the most appropriate placement for those individuals—men or women. I think that there is confusion in some noble Lords' minds about the difference between single-sex accommodation and single-sex wards. Earlier I said that the guidance on this issue has been exactly the same under this Government as it was under the previous government. The NHS guidelines require single-sex accommodation, which is defined as: single-sex sleeping areas, which may embrace bays rather than whole wards; separate bathroom and toilet facilities for men and women; and, for trusts providing mental health services, safe facilities for patients who are mentally ill. We have delivered those objectives, while the previous government did not.Lord Warner
: My Lords, does my noble friend accept that, over the past seven years, transforming this accommodation has been a massive undertaking and there has been substantial success in achieving the target? Is it not time that we started praising the NHS rather than continually knocking it?Lord Hunt of Kings Heath
1204: My Lords, I could not agree more with my noble friend. That is why we have consistently paid tribute to the hard work of NHS staff in
1204Lord Warner
: My Lords, some months ago, my noble friend Lady Noakes tabled a series of Questions for Written Answer in an attempt to find out which NHS hospitals still have mixed-sex wards. The Government declined to supply that information. Why do Ministers believe that the public do not have a right to be told where mixed-sex wards are still to he found?Earl Howe
: My Lords, I go back to my earlier answers. I have been talking consistently about single-sex accommodation and not single-sex wards. I have gone to some trouble to try to explain that to the House and to noble Lords opposite. As I have said, a number of hospitals are not compliant, the reason being that they have outstanding building works, many of which will be completed in the next 12 months or so. As I said in my Answer, in May we shall be making public the results of the 2004 survey in this area.Lord Warner
: My Lords. I think we are introducing a new institution of health Questions in this House.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that helpful and positive reply. However, is he aware of the grave concern expressed this week by the BMA that, as a result of the financial cuts in prospect under the research assessment exercise, it will be impossible to increase the numbers of medical graduates that we need and that some long-serving academic doctors are now staring redundancy in the face? What comment does the Minister have on that?Earl Howe
1205: My Lords, on the subject of medical academics, through the UK Clinical Research
1205Lord Warner
: My Lords, does the noble Lord accept that the decision by various UK medical schools to introduce the fast-track route towards a qualification in medicine for science graduates is most welcome? For some years, I was a trustee of the Foulkes Foundation, which gave grants to people with PhDs in science to enable them to study medicine in the hope—largely fulfilled—that they would subsequently become doctors working in academic medicine. Will the Government do all they can to increase the number of science graduates entering medical schools and the number of schools that offer these fast-track routes to qualification?Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, we now have 14 medical schools offering four-year fast-track graduate entry. I pay tribute to the contribution that the noble Lord has made in this area. It has been a success, and the fact that, as I said in my Answer, the numbers are continuing to go up and that there were 100 more subscriptions than had been planned for in last October's intake gives testimony to the fact that this has been a great success.Lord Warner
: My Lords, can the noble Lord help me as I am a genuine seeker after information? My daughter is a doctor and, when she did her houseman's training, there was no Working Time Directive. The directive has now cut the hours to a 44-hour week, if I am not mistaken. Before that, junior doctors were doing an awful lot more and gaining more training and more experience. How has the problem of what is, in effect, a reduction in productivity been overcome?The Earl of Onslow
: My Lords, it has been overcome with the usual adaptation and ingenuity of the NHS, to which I pay tribute.Lord Warner
: My Lords, I very much welcome the information that my noble friend has been able to give about the increase in the number of people entering the profession. However, can he say what the Government are doing to increase the interest that medical graduates are prepared to take in the rather less glamorous specialties? I have a particular interest in the current shortfall in specialists in psychiatric medicine. Can he say what efforts are being made to close the gap?Baroness McIntosh of Hudnall
1206: My Lords, specialty areas continue to seem to be less popular with people qualifying as doctors. We continue to work with all the interested parties to try to ensure that there is a good understanding of the opportunities in those areas. I do
1206Lord Warner
: My Lords, can the Minister tell the House how many doctors and nurses now working in the United Kingdom are from Africa? Will he reflect on the criticisms made by the BMA yesterday that it is immoral to rely on thousands of people who are trained as doctors and nurses in Africa when we are not training enough graduates in this country to fill those needs?Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, people have a right to come here to train. We have a long tradition of helping doctors from around the world both to become trained and qualified and to improve their postgraduate qualifications. The number of home graduates accepted to study medicine in the UK increased from 281 in the 1994 intake to 1,303 in 2003. Therefore, the increase in numbers in our medical training schools comes predominantly from people from within this country, and we have undertakings and understandings with different countries not to over-attract people to come to work in this country, thus denuding them of medical and nursing expertise.Lord Warner
: My Lords—Baroness Barker
: My Lords—Lord McColl of Dulwich
: My Lords, the Liberal Democrats.The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, given that all 29 medical schools in this country have reported an over-subscription to their courses and that last year 120 people from the United Kingdom sought medical training in places as far afield as the Cayman Islands and Prague, can the Minister say what the Government are doing to ensure that there is a sufficient number of teachers of clinical medicine in this country?Baroness Barker
: My Lords, I tried to address that issue when I responded to the noble Earl, Lord Howe.Lord Warner
: My Lords, what is the Government's attitude to the establishment of a private medical school, which will certainly increase the number of medical graduates?Lord McColl of Dulwich
: My Lords, it is for the General Medical Council to decide and determine the suitability of particular places to carry out medical training. There are no plans, as I understand it, for a particular school to be endorsed, but no doubt if in the medium to long term there is an expansion of medical school places, consideration will be given by the GMC to any proposals coming out of the private sector.Lord Warner
: My Lords, it is very much our policy to attract more international students to the UK. We recognise from the DfES international strategy the success and importance of the Prime Minister's initiative and emphasise our commitment to continue to expand the numbers of international students. We are currently considering a range of options for the recruitment of international students to the UK when the Prime Minister's initiative comes to an end in April.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
: My Lords, I declare my interest as a member of the council of Sussex University. About 20 per cent of the university's students are international and they make an important contribution to its income and to its international reputation and knowledge.Lord Renton of Mount Harry
1208: My Lords, yes, I can. First, the regulatory impact assessment, published at the time the Home Office announced those charges, set out why the Home Office did not believe that that would have a significant impact by deterring applications to the UK from students wishing to study here. That is for a good reason; we are seeing growth rates of between 12 and 14 per cent in the number of students coming to the UK.1208Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I declare an interest as chairman of the London School of Commerce. Is my noble friend aware that overseas students should not only be encouraged to our universities but also to the high quality private providers who are working collaboratively with British universities? Is he also aware that the greatest encouragement to both those entering the universities and the private sector of higher education is the significant progress made in recent months by UK Visas in achieving a much smoother pattern in the issue of UK visas? I hope that my noble friend will assure the House that that progress will continue.Lord Tomlinson
: My Lords, yes, I can. UK Visas has committed to raising its standards as part of the service. Of course, the fundamental question is how much the noble Lord, Lord Renton, believes that taxpayers should subsidise the cost of administering visas to foreign students. Does he believe that the taxpayers should subsidise them totally or only in part, as we are currently proposing to do? The big issue is the enormous expansion that has taken place in HE and FE education over the past five years. We have almost doubled the value of UK education exports in this country and we intend to go further, in partnership with private sector providers, as was signalled, and we are confident that we will be able to do so, as the Chancellor recently indicated.Lord Filkin
Economist,: My Lords, has the Minister seen the report in the current issue of the Economist,Lord Quirk
: My Lords, I never want the House to take too much heart from anything I say from the Dispatch Box. There is a danger of getting the issue out of proportion. The question is how much taxpayers should subsidise foreign students and whether we believe that there will be a continuing expansion in the strength of UK educational exports. Yes, we do.Lord Filkin
: Oh!Noble Lords
: My Lords, having agreed fully with what the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, and my noble friend Lord Kingsland said, perhaps I may add a few further factors that arise as a result of my having been in both Houses for nearly 60 years. I should perhaps mention that for all but nine of those years I have been a Queen's Counsel and had at one time a busy practice and a great deal of part-time judicial work.Lord Renton
: £3 billion.Noble Lords
BlandBland"It would not in any way permit this"."would allow doctors to force non-beneficial treatment on patients in their last dying days",1278mens rea,12771276(2) A decision to withhold or discontinue a treatment, made for the purpose of avoiding harm or burden to P from that treatment, is not within subsection (1) even if made with the belief that it will bring about P's death."(1) Nothing in this Act permits or authorises any decision made with a purpose of bringing about the death of a person ("P").Before Clause 58, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 1:
BlandBland"It would not in any way permit this"."would allow doctors to force non-beneficial treatment on patients in their last dying days",1278mens rea,12771276(2) A decision to withhold or discontinue a treatment, made for the purpose of avoiding harm or burden to P from that treatment, is not within subsection (1) even if made with the belief that it will bring about P's death."(1) Nothing in this Act permits or authorises any decision made with a purpose of bringing about the death of a person ("P").Before Clause 58, insert the following new clause—Lord Walton of Detchant
1280Hurt-typePepperamicus curiae,1279: My Lords, it is always a pleasure to follow the noble Lord, Lord Walton of Detchant. He deploys his understanding of medical
1280Hurt-typePepperamicus curiae,1279Lord Carlile of Berriew
1283BlandBland1282Hansard1281"I wish to commit suicide and to be assisted in that by the withholding of life-sustaining treatment and the managing of my resulting death shall then be in accordance with this advance decision".: My Lords, I apologise to the House in general and to the noble Lord, Lord Walton, in particular, for being a few minutes late for the debate. The reason is simple; while we debate the Bill in the Chamber, we also legislate by correspondence, and I had to look at the latest missive from my noble friend the Minister on my Amendment No. 55.1283BlandBland1282Hansard1281"I wish to commit suicide and to be assisted in that by the withholding of life-sustaining treatment and the managing of my resulting death shall then be in accordance with this advance decision".Lord Brennan
Bland1284: My Lords, the proposed new clause is extremely complicated. The matter is difficult to sort out for one good reason, which is that there is good intention from each side of the argument. There is no doubt of that. I echo what was said by the noble Lords, Lord Walton and Lord Carlile, in that none of us has any desire to prevent the Bill passing through. All of us can see the good in it but, because it deals with life and death, it can hardly be regarded with less than the maximum amount of care and consideration. We should get it right from the beginning.Bland1284Baroness Knight of Collingtree
Summa TheologicaBland1287F v West Berkshire Health AuthorityBland1286BlandBlandBland,BlandBlandBlandamicus curiae1285: My Lords, my only qualification for taking part in the debate is that I was
Summa TheologicaBland1287F v West Berkshire Health AuthorityBland1286BlandBlandBland,BlandBlandBlandamicus curiae1285Lord Lester of Herne Hill
"Normally one is held to use only ordinary means [to prolong life]—according to the circumstances of persons, places, times, and culture—that is to say, means that do not involve any grave burdens for oneself or another. A stricter obligation would be too burdensome for most men and would render the attainment of the higher, more important good too difficult".1289BlandOfficial Report"I have no doubt that it is for Parliament, not the courts, to decide the broader issues which this case raises … it seems to me imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised by this case should be considered by Parliament".—[Official ReportBlandBland1288: My Lords, these amendments attempt to deal with the situation of expressing suicide as an advance decision. Perhaps I should say at the outset that I am somewhat surprised that they were not drafted in those explicit terms if that was the intended objective."Normally one is held to use only ordinary means [to prolong life]—according to the circumstances of persons, places, times, and culture—that is to say, means that do not involve any grave burdens for oneself or another. A stricter obligation would be too burdensome for most men and would render the attainment of the higher, more important good too difficult".1289BlandOfficial Report"I have no doubt that it is for Parliament, not the courts, to decide the broader issues which this case raises … it seems to me imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised by this case should be considered by Parliament".—[Official ReportBlandBland1288Lord Carter
12961295"aids, abets, procures or encourages"—1294"Death is in the person's best interests".Bland1293Nedrick"Where a man realises that it is for all practical purposes inevitable that his actions will result in death or serious harm, the inference may be inevitable that he intended that result, however little he may have desired or wished it".129212911290: My Lords, I am sure that noble Lords are aware of the bravery of my noble friend Lord Carter's speech today. I accept what the noble Lords, Lord Walton and Lord Carlile, and the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, said about not wanting to wreck the Bill but to seek to get it right. I shall try
12961295"aids, abets, procures or encourages"—1294"Death is in the person's best interests".Bland1293Nedrick"Where a man realises that it is for all practical purposes inevitable that his actions will result in death or serious harm, the inference may be inevitable that he intended that result, however little he may have desired or wished it".129212911290Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, to a non-lawyer like me, Clause 58 seems crystal clear, but doubts have been raised by at least two noble Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, and the noble Lord, Lord Brennan, about statements made by the Minister and the noble and learned Lord the Attorney-General that Clause 58 in some way did not apply to advance directives. Has an ambiguity arisen in people's minds about that?The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords, I confess that I am not absolutely certain. I was hoping that the right reverend Prelate would speak before me so that I could have addressed all the points raised. There is no question about what Clause 58 does. Clause 58 states that the law is unchanged on the matters of murder and manslaughter and the law relating to suicide is also unchanged. That is as clear as we can possibly make it. There can be no ambiguity in that context.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Official Report: My Lords, before the Minister sits down and further to that point, does she recall stating in your Lordships' House on 27 January at col. 1505 of the Official ReportLord Alton of Liverpool
1297: My Lords, I have just gone through in some detail the issues around advance decisions, making it clear when an advance decision is valid and applicable and when circumstances have changed. What is relevant is that you cannot, in an advance decision, ask someone to help you die. You cannot move into the world of assisted suicide, nor can you ask someone to murder you. That is absolutely clear.
1297Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the point that the right reverend Prelate raised is the only point that troubles me. Is there any sense in which the Minister has said that Clause 58 does not apply to advance directives?Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, as the noble and learned Lord knows, Clause 58 does not change the position in terms of murder and manslaughter. Advance decisions, which are covered in other parts of the Bill, enable people to make decisions in advance of a time when they might lose capacity about certain kinds of treatment in respect of their health, welfare and other issues.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1298: My Lords, this has been a singularly interesting and well informed debate. It has demonstrated your Lordships' House at its best. Going back to the Select Committee on Medical Ethics, to which I have referred, the report in 1994 commended what were then called advance directives, and which are now called advance decisions.1298Lord Walton of Detchant
1299: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, does he agree that the Minister's full and commendably clear explanation contained within it answers to all seven points put by my noble friend Lord Carlile of Berriew, which will be extremely helpful not only to your Lordships but to those who, in future, are to implement the Bill?1299Baroness Barker
: My Lords, I said at the outset that this is not intended to be a wrecking amendment. Like all other noble Lords, I am sure, I wish to see the Bill succeed and reach the statute book.Lord Walton of Detchant
1300(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: or
(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: or"( ) No person, whether a healthcare professional or not, shall be under any duty, whether by contract or by any statutory or other legal requirement, to participate in any way in the withholding or withdrawing from P of—
(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: or
(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: orPage 33, line 7, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 2:
1300(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: or
(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: or"( ) No person, whether a healthcare professional or not, shall be under any duty, whether by contract or by any statutory or other legal requirement, to participate in any way in the withholding or withdrawing from P of—
(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: or
(b) nutrition or hydration, however provided,(a) any life-sustaining treatment: orPage 33, line 7, at end insert—Baroness Knight of Collingtree
1303"I would have been taking part in a process which diminished humanity"."I would no more monitor the stack at a hospital incinerator than I would the crematoria at Auschwitz"."It threw me into a professional and moral dilemma. I was a pharmacist and a man of faith in a profession trying to promote health and prolong life, and being asked to dispense a pill that terminates a new life. After wide consultation, prayer and heart-searching, I handed in my notice and left the post".1302"This is the real world"."I refused; my conscientious objection was that I was setting the ball in motion. I would have been responsible"."Unfortunately, I have not been allowed to work at Derby City General Hospital for over a year due to my religious distress at abortion. My employer, Derby City Council Social Services are not willing to change my rarest of duties so that I do not have to go into a ward where abortions are involved or being performed, something I find very distressing. I have even been made to see a psychiatrist over my … Catholic views and told I have no grounds for grievance".I am a hospital social worker at Derby City General Hospital working with older persons and adults with disabilities assessing risks for return home, providing support services and long-term residential and nursing care"."1 hope you do not mind me writing to you about the situation in which I find myself. I have an opportunity to clarify the law in relation to abortion, euthanasia and religious rights in the workplace through a legal test case.1301: My Lords, I am happy to support Amendments Nos. 2, 4 and 10 tabled by the noble Baroness, Lady Knight of Collingtree, to which I have added my name. In doing so we return to an issue that we debated in Committee, where the noble Earl, Lord Howe, had tabled an amendment. I had tabled a similar amendment on the issue of conscience.1303"I would have been taking part in a process which diminished humanity"."I would no more monitor the stack at a hospital incinerator than I would the crematoria at Auschwitz"."It threw me into a professional and moral dilemma. I was a pharmacist and a man of faith in a profession trying to promote health and prolong life, and being asked to dispense a pill that terminates a new life. After wide consultation, prayer and heart-searching, I handed in my notice and left the post".1302"This is the real world"."I refused; my conscientious objection was that I was setting the ball in motion. I would have been responsible"."Unfortunately, I have not been allowed to work at Derby City General Hospital for over a year due to my religious distress at abortion. My employer, Derby City Council Social Services are not willing to change my rarest of duties so that I do not have to go into a ward where abortions are involved or being performed, something I find very distressing. I have even been made to see a psychiatrist over my … Catholic views and told I have no grounds for grievance".I am a hospital social worker at Derby City General Hospital working with older persons and adults with disabilities assessing risks for return home, providing support services and long-term residential and nursing care"."1 hope you do not mind me writing to you about the situation in which I find myself. I have an opportunity to clarify the law in relation to abortion, euthanasia and religious rights in the workplace through a legal test case.1301Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, the moral issues surrounding conscience are extremely complex. If I may illustrate from a personal experience as a bishop, some years ago a couple wrote to me to say that their vicar would not conduct their marriage because they were living together before marriage. I had to write to the priest and say that if he was not willing to conduct the marriage, he had a responsibility to find someone who would.The Lord Bishop of Chelmsford
1304: My Lords, the right reverend Prelate has anticipated something important that I would like to draw upon. First, however, I must declare an interest, in view of the noble Lord, Lord Alton of Liverpool, linking this with termination of pregnancies. I was counsel in a case brought by the Family Planning Association of Northern Ireland against the Minister regarding the lack of guidance given to healthcare professionals in Northern Ireland about what is and is not lawful. It is relevant to mention that in the context of the examples that have been given by the noble Lord.1304Lord Lester of Herne Hill
1305"to participate in any way in the withholding or withdrawing … of … any life-sustaining treatment; or … nutrition or hydration, however provided",: My Lords, I am very glad that my noble friend has moved the amendment because it highlights an aspect of these problems which is extremely sensitive and important. It may be that some nurses are confident expounders of the philosophic doctrine of double effect and so forth, and are quite able to navigate those difficult waters; but I should not think that there are many of them. There are likely to be many more who would feel extremely upset in their conscience at having,
1305"to participate in any way in the withholding or withdrawing … of … any life-sustaining treatment; or … nutrition or hydration, however provided",Lord Mayhew of Twysden
: My Lords, I have added my name to this amendment as this is a serious matter. We are discussing life and death tonight. One of the biggest problems is that lawyers and doctors so often interpret the law in different ways; that has been illustrated to us tonight. That is why the law must be clear. Vulnerable people must be seen to be safeguarded. That is why I support this amendment. People who feel that they must do the best for their patients must be free to follow their conscience and to opt out if they feel that they are doing the wrong thing.Baroness Masham of Ilton
Code of Professional ConductDuties of a Doctor: My Lords, I recognise the wording of this amendment, which is lifted from the Abortion Act 1967. I submit that that case is quite different from the provision of care and treatment in accordance with the patient's wishes. The General Medical Council's Code of Professional ConductDuties of a DoctorBaroness Murphy
1306: My Lords, my noble friend will know that I have great sympathy with the intention behind the amendment. I do not know her intentions about pressing the amendment. If she decides not to press it, I hope that the reason will be that the Minister has confirmed what the noble Lord, Lord Lester, said; that is, that this is an unnecessary amendment. In the light of correspondence that the Minister has been kind enough to send me, I believe that to be so, but I await her response.1306Earl Howe
: My Lords, I shall answer my noble friend's question straight away. I have not tabled an amendment in order to diminish the rights of patients but to defend and protect those who carry out their duty as a nurse or a doctor. That is what the amendment is for.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
1307"I promised to check GMC and BMA guidance on provisions for when a doctor does not want to carry out a treatment. Doctors are entitled to have their personal beliefs respected and will not be pressurised to act contrary to those beliefs. As I stated during Committee, where a doctor has a conscientious objection they may withdraw from the care of the patient. In doing so however they must ensure, without delay, that arrangements have been made for another suitably qualified colleague to take over their role, so that the patient's care does not suffer. The individual doctor does not necessarily have to arrange personally for a transfer of care, provided there are alternative means of doing so. However, the doctor must not abandon the patient or otherwise cause their care to suffer".: My Lords, might I briefly intervene? The noble Baroness makes the case that she has made all the way through the passage of this Bill, even in its consideration during the Joint Committee. I commend her persistence in pursuing what she believes to be an important matter. I simply point out that the noble Baroness made the same case to the Joint Committee—which included among its number former nurses—and it was of one mind that there is a world of difference between bad nursing practice, which is what she has just described, and which is in no way permitted by the Bill, and the deliberate withdrawal of treatment.1307"I promised to check GMC and BMA guidance on provisions for when a doctor does not want to carry out a treatment. Doctors are entitled to have their personal beliefs respected and will not be pressurised to act contrary to those beliefs. As I stated during Committee, where a doctor has a conscientious objection they may withdraw from the care of the patient. In doing so however they must ensure, without delay, that arrangements have been made for another suitably qualified colleague to take over their role, so that the patient's care does not suffer. The individual doctor does not necessarily have to arrange personally for a transfer of care, provided there are alternative means of doing so. However, the doctor must not abandon the patient or otherwise cause their care to suffer".Baroness Barker
1308: My Lords, I join the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, in recognising the incredible amount of work that the noble Baroness, Lady Knight of Collingtree, has done in keeping the issue of basic care on the agenda. The Department of Health is very alive to the issues and questions which the noble Baroness has raised about the quality of care that patients receive.1308Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Hansard: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for saying that. I will certainly let her have those details, and they will, of course, be in HansardLord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, I do not accept that at all. Whether the protection is adequate should be judged on the basis of how it is carried out. If the noble Lord will give me the examples, we will investigate with certainty and determine what is happening in practice. Many times in my experience, both in the health service and in your Lordships' House, we discuss the issue of implementation of a law, rather than the law itself. The answer when an implementation issue comes up—if a law has not been implemented properly—is not to change the law, but to implement it effectively.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am most grateful. Has the Minister received any of the clear examples, of which there have been many, that led to this amendment—which seeks to defend people who are put in an impossible position? It does happen, and the worrying point is that unless there is a clear statement in the Bill that those looking after patients are also permitted to have a conscience, the same old troubles will go on. That is what worries me so much.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
13101309: My Lords, I cannot make it any clearer than I already have. The position is as has been stated; the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, read it out. There is an absolute right of people to act within their conscience, providing that patient care does not suffer. I am sure that the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, will accept that. It is the position now and will be when the Bill is on the statute book.
13101309Baroness Ashton of Upholland
The principles1311: My Lords, I wish that I could conclude this matter with the happy feeling, similar to that expressed by the noble Lord, Lord Walton, at the end of his speech, that all was for the best in the best of all possible worlds, that the Bill would manage to deal with all of our difficulties and worries, and that everything would be all right on the night.The principles1311Baroness Knight of Collingtree
13141313"We have already recommended that an attorney under a CPA should be under a duty to act in the donor's best interests. It is therefore logical to use this terminology rather than that of unsuitability in relation to the court's power to displace an attorney".1312Page 1, line 13, at end insert "and with a view to protecting him from abuse (whether physical, financial or of any other nature)"moved Amendment No. 3:
13141313"We have already recommended that an attorney under a CPA should be under a duty to act in the donor's best interests. It is therefore logical to use this terminology rather than that of unsuitability in relation to the court's power to displace an attorney".1312Page 1, line 13, at end insert "and with a view to protecting him from abuse (whether physical, financial or of any other nature)"Lord Christopher
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him".
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him"."A person is not entitled to receive notice … if
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him".
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him".1315: I wish to make one or two small points. I feel compelled to do so because we are back in anorak territory on the Bill. I commend the noble Lord, Lord Christopher, on bringing forward these amendments. Throughout the proceedings, he and I have bored the House rigid with our endless concerns about financial abuse. I commend him for seeking to address the issue in a practical way.(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him".
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him"."A person is not entitled to receive notice … if
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him".
(a) his name or address is not known to the donee and cannot be reasonably ascertained by him".1315Baroness Barker
13171316: My Lords, perhaps I may first say to my noble friend that I am sorry if the grouping took him by surprise. We thought that it hung together. Something that I will not forget about this Bill is the happy sessions that I have had with my noble friend and his band of advisers who have been fantastic in allowing me to say what I think and test out various ideas, and who have then come back to me on them. I thank my noble friend for that because it has been extremely valuable.13171316Baroness Ashton of Upholland
People who lack capacityAmendment No. 4 not moved.1318: My Lords, at this time of night, I certainly have no intention of seeking to divide the House on any amendment. However, I should like to say a few words on what my noble friend the Minister has said.People who lack capacityAmendment No. 4 not moved.1318Lord Christopher
1321"a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about what might be in his best interests".13201319(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, or
(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, or"( ) A lack of capacity cannot be established merely by reference to—
(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, or
(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, ormoved Amendment No. 5:
Page 2, line 9, at end insert—
1321"a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about what might be in his best interests".13201319(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, or
(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, or"( ) A lack of capacity cannot be established merely by reference to—
(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, or
(b) a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about his capacity."(a) a person's age or appearance, orBaroness Andrews
: My Lords, when I called this amendment, I regret that I forgot to say that there is a misprint on the Marshalled List. It should refer to page 2, line 11.The Deputy Speaker (The Countess of Mar)
1322: My Lords, I realise we are getting near closing time, but I would just like to say a few words to add my wholehearted support particularly to Amendments Nos. 5 and 7, and to stress to your Lordships how important it is that we get this vital Bill onto the statute book before the prophecy of a forthcoming election comes to pass. In this, as the Minister has already said, I am fully supported by Mencap, the Disability Rights Commission and the Making Decisions Alliance.1322Lord Rix
: My Lords, I am grateful for these amendments, and the clarity with which the Minister stated them. They will make clear the assessments of someone's capacity to make decisions. Decisions being made for someone lacking capacity should not be based on prejudice or discriminatory assumptions.Baroness Wilkins
1323: My Lords, I, too, add my thanks. On behalf of the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, who is not here, I welcome Amendment No. 6, because that deals with the point that she made. I am sure that the result of that small change will be to ensure that there are stronger provisions on support and communication needs for those who need such explanations.1323Baroness Barker
1324"a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour".: My Lords, I briefly add my thanks to the Minister for having listened and responded so positively to the concerns raised in Committee on these important issues. I share the observations of the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, about how helpful it was to talk to officials on the wording of these amendments.1324"a condition of his, or an aspect of his behaviour".Earl Howe
Inability to make decisions: My Lords, my noble friend should take the credit for that. It is a great pleasure to have arrived at this conclusion. Language is covered by aspects of behaviour. It is a tribute to the work of this House that we have arrived at an understanding of the significance of the changes proposed, and have found a way to make them. It is a reflection of the good will and partnership around the House.Inability to make decisionsBaroness Andrews
Best interestsPage 2. line 30, leave out "a general" and insert "an"moved Amendment No. 6:
Best interestsPage 2. line 30, leave out "a general" and insert "an"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I beg to move that consideration on Report be now adjourned.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
12311230: My Lords, I follow the noble Lord, Lord Borrie, in his observations, save in his conclusion. I believe that one must deal with the issue of whether the Lord Chancellor should be a lawyer and whether he should be in this House on the basis of generality. It is no good citing the exception, because it is the exception who proves the rule. Lord Jenkins has been cited on a number of occasions, and he is an exception that would have proved the rule. But it is no more legitimate to
12311230Lord Phillips of Sudbury
: My Lords, will the noble and learned Lord deal with one matter? He mentioned Roy Jenkins; does it count at all with him that my personal experience for two and a half years of the second Wilson government was that it was Roy Jenkins—neither a lawyer nor at that time a Member of this House—who as Home Secretary stood up for the rule of law against the left in cases such as the Shrewsbury Two and the Clay Cross councillors, when the lawyer members of that Government, fine though they were, were not as able to do so?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, of course I accept everything that the noble Lord says. Roy Jenkins was unquestionably a very fine man and he might perhaps have made a Lord Chancellor, but he did not have the qualifications that I, and I believe the judges, regard as so important.Lord Lloyd of Berwick
Official Report,1222"What is the greatest legal office in the world? Before the Bill was conceived, there could have been little doubt that it was that of the Lord Chancellor. In a non-Gilbertian sense, he embodied the law of England. His—and it could be her—high status has been an enduring symbol of the commitment of the United Kingdom to the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. That was not primarily because he sometimes sat as a judge—a practice which was falling into desuetude and is now being abandoned. That was incidental. It was because he was a senior Member of the House of Lords and of Cabinet—an illustrious and universally respected
Official Report,12221221non sequitur1220: My Lords, in due course, I shall be moving the amendment which stands in my name. However, I understand that it has been agreed for the convenience of the House that we should say all that we have to say now and then move the amendment formally in due course.Official Report,1222"What is the greatest legal office in the world? Before the Bill was conceived, there could have been little doubt that it was that of the Lord Chancellor. In a non-Gilbertian sense, he embodied the law of England. His—and it could be her—high status has been an enduring symbol of the commitment of the United Kingdom to the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. That was not primarily because he sometimes sat as a judge—a practice which was falling into desuetude and is now being abandoned. That was incidental. It was because he was a senior Member of the House of Lords and of Cabinet—an illustrious and universally respected
Official Report,12221221non sequitur1220Lord Lloyd of Berwick
(Lord Lloyd of Berwick.)1245rose to move Amendment No. 2A, as an amendment to the Motion that this House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 2, leave out "agree" and insert "disagree".(Lord Lloyd of Berwick.)1245Lord Lloyd of Berwick
1260: My Lords, I, too, have some concerns about the new clause. Like everyone else, I remember the endless discussions we had on this aspect of the matter in the Select Committee. I thought
1260Lord Lloyd of Berwick
: My Lords, on behalf of my noble friend Lady Scotland, I beg to move the Motion standing in her name on the Order Paper.Lord Grocott
Lord Falconer of Thoroton.1215"Although it may be more likely that someone in the House of Lords as at present constituted has the seniority and lack of aspiration towards further office which we considered desirable, it is by no means certain, and there will be suitable candidates for the post in both Houses. There does not, therefore, seem to be a compelling argument for insisting that the Lord Chancellor must be a member of the Upper House".: I apologise to the Bishops, my Lords.Lord Falconer of Thoroton.1215"Although it may be more likely that someone in the House of Lords as at present constituted has the seniority and lack of aspiration towards further office which we considered desirable, it is by no means certain, and there will be suitable candidates for the post in both Houses. There does not, therefore, seem to be a compelling argument for insisting that the Lord Chancellor must be a member of the Upper House".Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 2. We have debated this and it is for the noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, formally to move his amendment to it.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
12401239: My Lords, some of the burdens that any Lord Chancellor has to bear—as did the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay of Clashfern, whom I greatly admire—are the bricks and arrows of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner. They were delivered as viciously to all my predecessors as to me. Without doubt, probably the strongest argument for keeping the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords is that they are kept up to the mark by the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner.12401239Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I do not think I said that it would be much more likely to find someone in this House. I think that the noble and learned Lord is confirming that.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord went on to say that I said such a thing was much more likely. I do not think that I did say that.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons amendments be now considered.The Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs and Lord Chancellor (Lord Falconer of Thoroton)
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 1.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
121412131212: My Lords, that is a very sensible idea. I am more than happy with that suggestion.121412131212Lord Falconer of Thoroton
House Magazine.: My Lords, I echo the kind words of the noble Lord, Lord Williamson. Lady Strange was indeed a very colourful presence whom we shall all miss very much. She was dedicated to the House of Lords and had a great love for this place and all that it stands for. She entered the House in 1986 and was one of the hereditary Peers to win election to the House in 1999. She will be remembered, as the noble Lord said, for bringing flowers to the House from her home in Perthshire, but of course she will chiefly be remembered for her commitment to the causes that she championed—in particular, foreign affairs and the provision for war widows. She became president of the War Widows' Association in 1990; she was also an author and novelist and continued her passion for writing in her contributions to the House Magazine.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
: My Lords, the Cabinet meets once a week, and that is about as often as it met when the noble Lord was in it.Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 266.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 267 to 278. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 3, 4, 30 and 266.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 279. This is the privilege amendment.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1271: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 280 to 287. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendment No. 3.
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1271Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 288 and 289. These are purely technical amendments to Schedule 1.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 290 and 291. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendment No. 3.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 292 and 293.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1272: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 294 to 330.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1272Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 331.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 332 to 454. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 3, 13 and 30,(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1273: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 455 to 460.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1273Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 461 to 489.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 490. The amendment is grouped with Amendments Nos. 494, 508 to 511, 513 and 516. This is a group of minor technical amendments which tidy up Schedule 10.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 491 to 548. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 330 and 490.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1274: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 549. The amendment is grouped with Amendments Nos. 552, 557 and 577; it is a group of minor amendments designed largely to bring the provisions regarding the appointment of the Judicial Appointments and Conduct Ombudsman into line with the corresponding provisions concerning the appointment of the members of the Judicial Appointments Commission.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1274Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 550 to 583. I have spoken to these amendments under Amendments Nos. 330 and 549.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 584 to 588. These are all technical amendments.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 589 to 592. I have spoken to the amendments with Amendments Nos. 254 and 266.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 593. I spoke to the amendment with Amendment No. 1.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 243 to 245. This group of amendments is largely concerned with the disciplinary powers of the Lord Chief Justice. As there are likely to be too many disciplinary complaints each year, in too many areas, for the Lord Chief Justice to deal with all of them personally, Amendment No. 243 makes it clear that he can delegate his disciplinary functions and thus share the complaints caseload with other senior judges.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1268(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 246 to 249. These amendments have been spoken to already.1268(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 250 to 253. This is a small group of minor and technical amendments to Clause 104, which provides relevant definitions in relation to Part 4 of the Bill dealing with judicial appointments and discipline.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
265265(4) No motion for the presentation of such an address may be made"264264(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1269: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 254 to 263. I speak to Amendments Nos. 254 to 263 and Amendment No. 589 which amend the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2002 to make provision in relation to the new office of the Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments Ombudsman and to provide a statutory power of disclosure of information, held by permitted persons, to the Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments Commission.265265(4) No motion for the presentation of such an address may be made"264264(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1269Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1270: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 264 and 265. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendment No. 1.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)1270Lord Falconer of Thoroton
(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 594 to 624. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 30, 264 and 266.(Lord Falconer of Thoroton.)Lord Falconer of Thoroton
1265: My Lords, it is obviously sensible that there should be a position where the Lord Chancellor can say to a potential judge, "Before I appoint you I want you to be medically checked". If the medical check is unfavourable and there is any
1265Viscount Bledisloe
1233: My Lords, I get the impression that the House would like to bring this matter to a conclusion, but I want to make one point. Let there be no doubt that if this House allows Clauses 2 and 3 to be removed from the Bill, it will have abandoned any real attempt to retain the office of Lord Chancellor in any
1233Viscount Bledisloe
1253: My Lords, I should like to ask the noble Baroness about Amendment No. 116. At present, the Bill provides that the Master of the Rolls is the head of civil justice and allows the Lord Chief Justice to appoint a deputy for him. The amendment states that the head of civil justice is to be the Master of the Rolls or, if the Lord Chief Justice appoints another person, that person.1253Viscount Bledisloe
: My Lords, perhaps I may assist the Minister with an answer for the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay. Surely the only people available for selection are those who have applied. Many people may be qualified for selection, but they are only available if they apply. So the Minister is surely right to say that if the commission encourages people to apply, that is encouraging them to make themselves available for selection.Viscount Bledisloe
(Lord Kingsland.)rose to move, as an amendment to the Motion that this House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 87, leave out "agree" and insert "disagree".(Lord Kingsland.)Lord Kingsland
1241: My Lords, it has been another extremely stimulating debate about "Lord and lawyer", and it is now my task to bring it to a close. I shall do so extremely tersely.1241Lord Kingsland
Lord Kingsland12191218: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Lord for his intervention. If he will allow me to continue a little further, I think that he will get the answer to his question. I was about to argue that a Lord Chancellor responsible for upholding the rule of law in statute would find that responsibility incompatible with membership of another place.Lord Kingsland12191218Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble and learned Lord for giving way. Would the noble and learned Lord be prepared to speak now to both the first and second line of amendments; in other words, to deal now with the issue of "Lord" and "lawyer"? Although they are in some senses distinct, in others they are intimately connected.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. In the light of what the noble Baroness said there may have been some advantages in staying with the solution devised by the Select Committee: if the rules are guidance rules they can be changed much more easily and one could, over a period of time, have endorsed and factored in the programme approach contained in the Northern Ireland legislation. Having said that, on balance I am minded not to press my amendment and beg leave to withdraw it.Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)rose to move, as an amendment to the Motion that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 264 and 265, leave out "agree" and insert "disagree".(Lord Kingsland.)Lord Kingsland
1262: My Lords, in the course of the debate in the Select Committee, I recall drawing the attention of the noble and learned Lord to Section 3 of the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2004, which inserted a similar provision into the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2002. There, having set out an exclusive merit test, it went on to say that that test was subject to the commission engaging in a programme of action which is designed to secure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that a range of persons reflective of the community in Northern Ireland is available for consideration by the commission.1262Lord Kingsland
(Lord Kingsland.)1275rose to move Amendment No. 593A, as an amendment to the Motion that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 593, leave out "agree" and insert "disagree".
(Lord Kingsland.)1275Lord Kingsland
1217"swear that in the office of Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain I will respect the rule of law, defend the independence of the judiciary".(b) the Lord Chancellor's existing constitutional role in relation to that principle".(a) the existing constitutional principle of the rule of law, or
(b) the Lord Chancellor's existing constitutional role in relation to that principle".(a) the existing constitutional principle of the rule of law, or"This Act does not adversely affect—1216rose to move Amendment No. 1A, as an amendment to the Motion that this House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 1, leave out "agree" and insert "disagree".1217"swear that in the office of Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain I will respect the rule of law, defend the independence of the judiciary".(b) the Lord Chancellor's existing constitutional role in relation to that principle".(a) the existing constitutional principle of the rule of law, or
(b) the Lord Chancellor's existing constitutional role in relation to that principle".(a) the existing constitutional principle of the rule of law, or"This Act does not adversely affect—1216Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I support the merit principle, which is in no way incompatible with the principle upon which the Bill is based. The chances of appointing the best kind of people will be enhanced by the amendment. It is for that reason that I support it.Lord Clinton-Davis
: My Lords, I intervene briefly to support Amendment No. 1A, proposed by the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland. On balance. the continuity provided by the presence of the Lord Chancellor in this House and in the Cabinet is of value to Parliament and to government. We took this view before, and I stay with it.Lord Williamson of Horton
Lord Williamson of Horton.: My Lords, on behalf of the noble Baroness, Lady Finlay of Llandaff, I beg to introduce a Bill to make provision about the registration of cancer and for connected purposes. I beg to move that this Bill be now read a first time.Lord Williamson of Horton.Lord Williamson of Horton
: My Lords, I am most grateful. I feel a bit like the elderly and one-time eminent QC who, in answer to his Lordship's former question, "Do you move, Sir Roger?", said, "Yes, but with difficulty".Lord Ackner
1237Official Report,"The … Lord Chancellor, agreed with the basic proposition that his department—the Department for Constitutional Affairs—had to be strong enough to stand up to not just the Home Office… but to any department that might seek to infringe the rule of law".—[Official Report,: My Lords, I am very sorry that I was interrupted in the course of paying a compliment to the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor. I have watched his footwork as an advocate with enormous admiration. He has not only been consummate in his gathering together of the entirety of the subject, but like any really skilled advocate he has realised the weakness of his case from time to time and as a result. when obliged, has made concessions.1237Official Report,"The … Lord Chancellor, agreed with the basic proposition that his department—the Department for Constitutional Affairs—had to be strong enough to stand up to not just the Home Office… but to any department that might seek to infringe the rule of law".—[Official Report,Lord Ackner
: My Lords, I am very grateful. I thoroughly agree with and adopt, with respect, what has just been said.Lord Ackner
1238: My Lords, if the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, is saying that the Lord Chancellor should not be a lawyer, I can deal with that very simply.1238Lord Ackner
Official Report,"Throughout the debates we have had on the rule of law, the contention has been that the Lord Chancellor has always had a role with regard to the rule of law, and that it is important that we do not inadvertently lose or diminish that role. There has also been general, if perhaps not universal, agreement that such a duty was a political one, but it was not a duty to be enforced in the courts. My amendment seeks to give effect to both these lines of argument; it acknowledges that the Lord Chancellor has a duty with regard to the rule of law and it acknowledges that that duty is not one that is cognisable as a matter of law. It will ensure that the rule of law features in the deliberations of the reformed Lord Chancellor in the same way as it does now with the existing Lord Chancellor. But it does so in a way that does not have wider, unintended effects". [Official Report,1227(a) to the House of Commons only by the Prime Minister; and (b) to the House of Lords only by the Lord Chancellor"."a motion for the presentation of an address to Her Majesty for the removal of a person from any of those offices may be made—vice versa."The Lord Chancellor is thus the judges' guardian and representative in the Cabinet and Parliament and, as necessary, vice versa."At the same time, he is removed to the House of Lords, away from the full force of party politics. The Lord Chancellor is always a senior lawyer or judge, and therefore comes to government imbued with full understanding of legal culture and the rule of law. His tripartite role enables him to act as both a link and bulwark between the judiciary and the executive and the legislature. He can explain. defend and interpret each to the other".1226"is made a Minister, duly accountable to Parliament for the public funds expended on the courts"."The Lord Chancellor provides a counter-balance for the judicial branch against the centralised power of government and Parliament. Under this system. the head of the judiciary"—"In many cases one will be much better off having someone in this House … it is 'mistrustful' of the other place to say that it could never produce anyone as good as someone from our place to perform that function".: Yes, indeed, my Lords. I shall read it again:
Official Report,"Throughout the debates we have had on the rule of law, the contention has been that the Lord Chancellor has always had a role with regard to the rule of law, and that it is important that we do not inadvertently lose or diminish that role. There has also been general, if perhaps not universal, agreement that such a duty was a political one, but it was not a duty to be enforced in the courts. My amendment seeks to give effect to both these lines of argument; it acknowledges that the Lord Chancellor has a duty with regard to the rule of law and it acknowledges that that duty is not one that is cognisable as a matter of law. It will ensure that the rule of law features in the deliberations of the reformed Lord Chancellor in the same way as it does now with the existing Lord Chancellor. But it does so in a way that does not have wider, unintended effects". [Official Report,1227(a) to the House of Commons only by the Prime Minister; and (b) to the House of Lords only by the Lord Chancellor"."a motion for the presentation of an address to Her Majesty for the removal of a person from any of those offices may be made—vice versa."The Lord Chancellor is thus the judges' guardian and representative in the Cabinet and Parliament and, as necessary, vice versa."At the same time, he is removed to the House of Lords, away from the full force of party politics. The Lord Chancellor is always a senior lawyer or judge, and therefore comes to government imbued with full understanding of legal culture and the rule of law. His tripartite role enables him to act as both a link and bulwark between the judiciary and the executive and the legislature. He can explain. defend and interpret each to the other".1226"is made a Minister, duly accountable to Parliament for the public funds expended on the courts"."The Lord Chancellor provides a counter-balance for the judicial branch against the centralised power of government and Parliament. Under this system. the head of the judiciary"—"In many cases one will be much better off having someone in this House … it is 'mistrustful' of the other place to say that it could never produce anyone as good as someone from our place to perform that function".Lord Howe of Aberavon
: My Lords, I have quoted verbatim, with some care.Lord Howe of Aberavon
"In many cases one will be much better off having someone in this House".1225Official Report,"In many cases one will be much better off having someone in this House … it is 'mistrustful' of the other place to say that it could never produce anyone as good as someone from our place to perform that function".—[Official Report,: My Lords, I yield to nobody in my admiration for the late Roy Jenkins, but I do not think that one case, however distinguished, really proves that point. I should like to deal with the arguments advanced by the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor to a large extent by quoting some passages for which he was responsible, beginning with that very point."In many cases one will be much better off having someone in this House".1225Official Report,"In many cases one will be much better off having someone in this House … it is 'mistrustful' of the other place to say that it could never produce anyone as good as someone from our place to perform that function".—[Official Report,Lord Howe of Aberavon
1229: My Lords, I am sufficiently an old-fashioned lawyer to think that at any rate in the foreseeable near future the Lord Chancellor would most desirably be in this House and a lawyer of substantial qualification, as set out in the Bill. But I do not believe that there should be a statutory requirement for either of those things. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Howe of Aberavon, has listed quite a number of provisions in this Bill that suggest that a lawyer would be the best person to
1229Lord Borrie
: My Lords, I think that I am right in saying that when a consultation document was issued about the subsidiary functions of the Lord Chancellor—for example, in relation to ecclesiastical appointments—it was asked whether it was any longer appropriate that such appointments should be made by a senior Secretary of State. Is the solution to that problem to transfer them to the Prime Minister?Lord Mackay of Clashfern
"the range of persons available for selection"."the range of persons available""encourage diversity in the range of persons available for selection for appointments".: My Lords, I have no difficulty with the idea that Clause 57 maintains the principle of merit. However, I have a little difficulty with the wording that has been chosen in regard to diversity. The amendment requires the commission to,
"the range of persons available for selection"."the range of persons available""encourage diversity in the range of persons available for selection for appointments".Lord Mackay of Clashfern
: My Lords, what is the position of the Supreme Court of Scotland? Is that a matter for the Scottish Parliament to deal with?Lord Mackay of Clashfern
"in the range of persons available",: My Lords, in that case, the phrase,
"in the range of persons available",Lord Mackay of Clashfern
1228: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor reminded us that, deep in our history, these Benches had the office of Lord Chancellor. My understanding is that one or two of them fulfilled the office quite well. I assure him, however, that, despite the difficulties of the Church of England, we have no desire to have it back.1228The Lord Bishop of Chelmsford
: I meant billion, my Lords—forgive me. I am not numerate, but £3 billion was what I meant to say. That is a very large budget, with lots of noughts at the end —too many for me. It clearly should be defended and justified by an accountable Minister in the House of Commons.Lord Morgan
Who's Who.12241223: My Lords, I would like to speak strongly in support of what my noble and learned friend the Lord Chancellor said. I do so with the confidence of a non-lawyer, who tend to be unrepresented in these discussions.
Who's Who.12241223Lord Morgan
: My Lords, is it not in fact a principle that we observe in other areas of life? In academic life, for example, and no doubt in other professional areas, you seek to strike a balance between people who have the ability to do the job and other kinds of circumstances, including the social background, the context and the needs. It is not necessarily so unique a problem.Lord Morgan
: My Lords, I am most obliged to the noble Lord. I have been thinking about his propositions as to the past. He offered the proposition that Lord Chancellors never offered legal advice to the government. Does he recall Lord Hailsham, who invariably stated the law for the benefit not merely of the government, but for all of us? Sometimes he stated it wrongly, it is true, but nevertheless he did so very often.Lord Wedderburn of Charlton
1232: My Lords, I shall be brief as I do not wish to repeat any of the arguments that have been made and I support the amendment of my noble friend Lord Kingsland. However, I wish to challenge something that the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor said about the idea that the Prime Minister should be free to appoint whom he likes. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, pointed out that the present status of the Lord Chancellor as Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs puts him pretty low
1232Lord Forsyth of Drumlean
agrément: My Lords, it has a meeting, but it does not perform the functions of Cabinets in the old days. Indeed, it is not even given legal opinions when major decisions that affect us all are being made, as the noble and learned Lord the Lord Chancellor knows only too well.agrémentLord Forsyth of Drumlean
1259: My Lords. I find myself in agreement with the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, both in his conclusions and in his recollection of the reasoning of the Select Committee. There is no doubt that the Select Committee was concerned to ensure primacy in the requirement that appointments be made according to merit. I think that our caution in our recommendation was justified.
1259Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Lord. Lord Kingsland, for giving way. But I put it to the noble Lord that he is, perhaps inadvertently, idealising the historical role of the Lord Chancellor in recent times. I believe that the previous Conservative Lord Chancellor might not have gone as far as suggesting that he, in his role as Lord Chancellor, could either have stopped the Conservative Cabinet in its tracks if it had proposed something contrary to the rule of law or ever denied that. as a Member of a Cabinet, he was bound by collective responsibility for its decisions. The example I put forward is the denial of access to justice—an issue of great constitutional importance—which the noble and learned Lord, Lord Mackay. was unable to resist, when legal aid rules were substantially altered to cut access to the courts.Lord Maclennan of Rogart
: My Lords, does the circumstance that the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, has just outlined not also underline the fact that a cessation of this office in this House would greatly diminish the authority and effectiveness of the House itself? Should we not have that in mind as well?Lord Elton
1236: My Lords, I am sure that the late Lord Hailsham was very free in giving his advice broadly, not only to the Cabinet but, as the noble Lord, Lord Wedderburn, said, to your Lordships' House and to the world at large. That is not quite the same function as being the government's official legal adviser, which I think a Lord Chancellor never has been.1236Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I apologise, but I am not sure whether that is an intervention. The noble and learned Lord has the right to address your Lordships' House after I have finished.Lord Goodhart
12351234: My Lords, we on these Benches—with the usual exception of my noble friend Lord Phillips of Sudbury, who may be described as the Helena Kennedy of our party—support Commons Amendments Nos. I and 2 and wish to see Clauses 2 and 3 deleted from the Bill.12351234Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, I apologise for not having noticed that. I give way to the noble and learned Lord.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, since the noble and learned Lord to whom the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, has just taken such exception is plainly a senior lawyer, does that not suggest, on the logic of his argument, that he should widen the pool of those from whom the Lord Chancellor could be selected?Lord Goodhart
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 3.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of Upholland)
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1249: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 4 to 6.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1249Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 7 to 10. I spoke to these amendments with Amendment No. 3.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 11.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1250: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 12.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1250Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)12521251: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 13 and 14.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)12521251Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I take the noble and learned Lord's point with the degree of jocularity that I think he intended. We have made something even more sensible than it was before.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I did not interpret what is proposed in the same way as the noble Viscount. As I understand it—and I checked this point because I had a feeling that he might raise it—that provision returns the Bill to the present position, which is that someone other than the Master of the Rolls could be appointed. As my noble and learned friend would be the first to say, it is important that someone takes the decision and that it is made in accordance with the new relationship between the judiciary and the Lord Chief Justice. So it ensures that the Lord Chief Justice is appropriately positioned with the Lord Chancellor.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 15.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1254: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 16 to 29. I have already spoken to them with Amendment No. 3.
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1254Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Buroness Ashton of Upholland.)"The Supreme Court of England and Wales and the Supreme Court of Judicature of Northern Ireland should be renamed and, when necessary to avoid confusion, the short titles of legislation relating to those courts should also be changed".: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 30 and 31.(Buroness Ashton of Upholland.)"The Supreme Court of England and Wales and the Supreme Court of Judicature of Northern Ireland should be renamed and, when necessary to avoid confusion, the short titles of legislation relating to those courts should also be changed".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, it is indeed for the Scottish Parliament to deal with.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1255: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 32 to 80. I spoke to them with Amendment No. 3.
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1255Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 81 to 83. These amendments make provision relating to records of the United Kingdom Supreme Court and for the court's official seal. They were prepared in close consultation with the senior Law Lord.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 84. The aim of this amendment is to provide for the status of the new UK Supreme Court under the Northern Ireland Act 1998. Provision is made for the Supreme Court to be specified as an excepted matter in Schedule 2 to that Act, but for rights of appeal to the UK Supreme Court and legal aid for such appeals to be reserved matters in Schedule 3.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 85 and 86. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 3 and 30.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)12581257: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 87. Amendment No. 87 was originally the second of two amendments tabled by Mr Vaz, Mr Bottomley and three other members of the Constitutional Affairs Select Committee to give effect to the Select Committee's recommendation that the Judicial Appointments Commission should be under an explicit duty to promote diversity.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)12581257Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I hope not to need help, but it is always great to get help from the noble Viscount.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1261: My Lords, parliamentary counsel would say that is what it says. Not being a lawyer, I am always beholden to parliamentary counsel.1261Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, very happily, we are all in agreement—which is slightly disturbing at one level. The situation is as the noble and learned Lords, Lord Lloyd of Berwick and Lord Mackay of Clashfern, said: it is absolutely about merit.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, who knows a great deal about the provisions of the Northern Ireland Act 2000, which came from the Criminal Justice Review and describes a system that is reflective of the community, which is a different language for a different set of purposes.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 88 to 93, to which I have already spoken in the debate on Amendment No. 3.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1263: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 94.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1263Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment No. 95, to which I have spoken with Amendment No. 3.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1264: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 96 to 100.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1264Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: Indeed, my Lords, I can give the noble Viscount that assurance.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 101 to 216. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 3 and 96.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1266: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 217 to 222. This is the first of a set of three groups of amendments reflecting work done to ensure that the concordat provisions are clearly and fully expressed and that the involvement of the Scottish and Northern Irish judiciary is properly allowed for in relation to tribunal appointments where most of the sittings will be in those jurisdictions.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1266Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1267: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 223 to 227. This group of amendments consists of changes to the discipline provisions in the Bill to ensure that it is fully consistent with the concordat over changes made in your Lordships' House. The changes concern the discipline regulations to be made by the Lord Chief Justice, the substantive powers of the ombudsman and the application of the disciplinary regime to tribunals with United Kingdom or Great Britain-wide jurisdiction.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)1267Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendments Nos. 228 to 242. I have spoken to these amendments with Amendments Nos. 3 and 223.(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I have a couple of mild observations. First, it is not quite right to talk about "the exception proving the rule" in any sense. It is a translation from the Latin and the word is "probat", which is mistranslated as "prove". It means "tries" or "challenges". The exception of Roy Jenkins did indeed challenge the rule.Baroness Whitaker
: My Lords, may I interrupt the noble Lord? I think that the noble and learned Lord, Lord Ackner, has been on his feet for some time.The Countess of Mar
en bloc: My Lords, is there any reason why these Motions should not be moved en blocThe Countess of Mar
en bloc.1211: My Lords, I understand that the Procedure Committee has to consider the issue and
en bloc.1211Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos.: My Lords, I beg to move the first Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos.: My Lords, I beg to move the second Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos.: My Lords, I beg to move the third Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos.: My Lords, I beg to move the fourth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.Baroness Amos
Baroness Amos.: My Lords, I beg to move the fifth Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.Baroness Amos.Baroness Amos
: Cross Bench!Noble Lords
: My Lords, the noble Baroness talks about 294 support staff. What do they all do?Baroness Sharpies
asked Her Majesty's Government:The Earl of Dundee
1329: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Does she accept that far better results will be achieved from the proper planning of support and accommodation at the beginning, rather than at the end, of sentences? Roughly 30 per cent of such planning does not take place until the day after release. Does she agree that current schemes should become
1329The Earl of Dundee
: My Lords, the Government strongly support independence and impartiality in the broadcast media. That is why we carried forward the statutory impartiality obligations into the Communications Act and have similar requirements on the BBC, through its charter and agreement.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
"contain comprehensive, authoritative and impartial coverage of news and current affairs in the United Kingdom and throughout the world to support fair and informed debate at local, regional and national levels".: My Lords, I assume that when the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, talks about charter review it means that his supplementary question is about the BBC rather than the commercial broadcasters."contain comprehensive, authoritative and impartial coverage of news and current affairs in the United Kingdom and throughout the world to support fair and informed debate at local, regional and national levels".Lord McIntosh of Haringey
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.): My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I did not accuse the noble Lord, Lord Roberts, of asking the Government to intervene. I do not think he was. I agree entirely with my noble friend Lord Davies that it would be utterly inappropriate for the Government to intervene. We have the controls in the BBC agreement, which I read out, and there are comparable controls on commercial broadcasters which are the responsibility of Ofcom and are in Sections 319 and 320 of the Communications Act. I think we should leave the matter at that and leave it to Ofcom and the BBC governors to exercise control.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
1332: My Lords, I imagine that there are more than three parties. The supplementary
1332Lord McIntosh of Haringey
: My Lords, I do not try to cap other people's jokes, particularly those of the noble Lord, Lord Strathclyde.Lord McIntosh of Haringey
13821381: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for initiating this debate. I shall talk about the future of democracy in Iraq.13821381Lord Giddens
1383: My Lords, I am just about to finish.
1383Lord Giddens
1403Lancet1402: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for initiating the debate and congratulate him on the measured way in which he introduced it.1403Lancet1402Lord Young of Norwood Green
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree with me that, given that there are 43 constabularies in England and Wales, in general forces are doing extremely well, particularly those such as Northumbria, Durham and Lancashire, which are subject to the same national clerical requirements as apply to Nottinghamshire? In saying that, does she agree with me that the selection of Nottinghamshire smacks of a pre-election ploy by highlighting poor performance that seems locally bound rather than being a national problem?Lord Mackenzie of Framwellgate
1352"They should have the opportunity to develop their individual potential to the full, whether intellectual, creative, practical, or a combination of these"."We must ensure rigour and that all young people are equipped with the knowledge, skills and attributes needed for HE, employment and adult life"."The curriculum for a maintained school satisfies the requirements of this section if it is a balanced and broadly based curriculum which … promotes the spiritual, moral, cultural. mental and physical development of pupils at the school and of society; and … prepares such pupils for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of adult life".: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for introducing this important subject for debate. I hope that some of your Lordships might have had the opportunity, as I had, of talking to some of the young people who were lobbying outside the House earlier today for more money for colleges.1352"They should have the opportunity to develop their individual potential to the full, whether intellectual, creative, practical, or a combination of these"."We must ensure rigour and that all young people are equipped with the knowledge, skills and attributes needed for HE, employment and adult life"."The curriculum for a maintained school satisfies the requirements of this section if it is a balanced and broadly based curriculum which … promotes the spiritual, moral, cultural. mental and physical development of pupils at the school and of society; and … prepares such pupils for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of adult life".Lord Northbourne
: My Lords, am I right in saying that in many cases, although not so much in relation to physical disability, making provision for disability involves additional staff? Can the Minister give an assurance that extra funding will be available so that existing pupils will not be disadvantaged by funds being switched from them to fulfil these new obligations?Lord Northbourne
: My Lords—Lord Northbourne
1358"to improve … not to replace",1357: My Lords, I also thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for initiating this important debate. The Tomlinson report makes one of the biggest contributions to our thinking on education for many decades by focusing on the crucial years of 14 to 19 and problems such as early leaving. The noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, reminded us that far too many children leave at 16. We are now near the bottom of the OECD league table in that respect.1358"to improve … not to replace",1357Lord Moser
Times: My Lords, I am aware that the House of Lords Select Committee has, as reported in the TimesLord Davies of Coity
: My Lords, I can speak generally about our experience on early intervention, but I am not up to date on the specifics concerning children with ME. I am keen to pursue that and I shall write to the noble Baroness on the subject. Our story on early intervention generally—we have now found ways of doing it through the Early Support programme—is that, by intervening early when a problem with a child is identified by the parent, one can make a relationship with the parent and transform the nature of the relationship between the parent and the school or the early-years setting. It is crucial that the input is felt earlier and that the parents feel that the state, at local and national level, is working with them rather than against them. I am sure that that general principle applies to children with ME. I look forward to exploring that with the noble Baroness.Lord Filkin
1327Every Child Mattersnon sequitur.: My Lords, I think that if the noble Lord unpacks his question, he will find that it is a 1327Every Child Mattersnon sequitur.Lord Filkin
1326Every Child Matters,: My Lords, as my good friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer said recently, we are committed to giving every child the best possible start in life. Those are not mere words. We are thinking carefully about whether it is appropriate at this time to place further specific duties on schools. That decision will be made later because such decisions are reached when regulations are made under the Act rather than now.1326Every Child Matters,Lord Filkin
: My Lords, the preparations for it are going well. They are part of a wide range of preparations for supporting what schools do in practice. That touches directly on the question of what schools will find most helpful in accelerating their performance so as to achieve better outcomes for disabled children. By that, I mean: do they simply require the production of another plan or do they need effective actions of the kind mentioned by the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, to show them how to do it in practice and tougher accountability through Ofsted joint area reviews relating to whether they have succeeded or failed?Lord Filkin
: Yes, my Lords, that has been part of our policy to date and it will continue to be so. The funding operates at two levels. One concerns the overall increase in funding in the educational system, which is fundamental to raising standards. The second level concerns delegating more of that funding to schools so that they have the ability to shape a pattern of support for children—particularly disabled children. Schools can thus better meet the needs of children without in all cases thinking that they will obtain more provision only by going for a statement, which we know is not how the issue should be addressed. Therefore, it is a question of how that increased funding, the support referred to by the noble Baroness, Lady Morris, and the wider framework of accountability and pressure collectively raise the standards for disabled children—standards which we must achieve.Lord Filkin
1328: My Lords, as always, I defer to the expertise of my noble friend Lord Ashley in this area. However, at the moment we have not made a decision one way or the other on this point. The decision will be made downstream, through regulations. The criteria that we will bear in mind when coming to a decision, and the fundamental test that I and my ministerial colleagues will use will be what will achieve the best outcomes for disabled children. We shall not shrink from that. We shall not shrink from being intellectually tough in doing that or in having the very strong dialogue that I intend to have with the Disability Rights Commission and the four
1328Lord Filkin
13751374: My Lords, the noble Baroness is absolutely right. I thank her for interrupting me. In fact part of the proposal is to ensure that there is good guidance. That is crucial in trying to raise participation at that point.13751374Lord Filkin
13731372Framework for Achievement.137113701369: My Lords, by happenstance, it is Budget day which, in many ways, is quite fitting. The Chancellor said in his speech that because education is the 21st-century road to prosperity, Britain must become the best educated, the best trained and the best skilled country in the world. The noble Lord, Lord Walton, said something very similar in his interesting and important speech.
unni13731372Framework for Achievement.137113701369Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I have very limited time, so I hope that the noble Baroness will interrupt me shortly.Lord Filkin
: My Lords, I am pleased to confirm that we very much support the proposed general duty to promote equality of opportunity for disabled people and we are keen for schools to play their full part.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Education and Skills (Lord Filkin)
: My Lords, my thanks to the noble Lord, Lord Garden. I have listened to nearly all the speeches with great pleasure. I must say that the suggestion that the new parliament in Iraq was a sham was pretty awful. For the rest, I think there have been very valuable points indeed.Lord Howell of Guildford
140914081407: My Lords, I am glad that the noble Lord has chosen to make that clear because it did not come over very well.140914081407Lord Howell of Guildford
(Lord Triesman.)[8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee].1417[8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee].rose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 17 January be approved (Lord Triesman.)[8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee].1417[8th Report from the Regulatory Reform Committee].Lord Triesman
1420: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord, Lord Newby, and the noble Baroness, Lady Miller, for their helpful comments. I think I can answer the questions pretty quickly.1420Lord Triesman
(Lord Triesman.)[5th Report from he Joint Committee]."The changes enable firms to explain activities to stakeholders in plain language without checking every comma for exposure to legal challenge. There is now a real possibility that the OFR will improve dialogue between companies and constituencies, something we all want".14221421[5th Report from the Joint Committee].rose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 12 January be approved (Lord Triesman.)[5th Report from he Joint Committee]."The changes enable firms to explain activities to stakeholders in plain language without checking every comma for exposure to legal challenge. There is now a real possibility that the OFR will improve dialogue between companies and constituencies, something we all want".14221421[5th Report from the Joint Committee].Lord Triesman
14301429: My Lords, I am again grateful to all four noble Lords who have contributed to the debate. I must declare my hand from the outset; I am temperamentally a deregulator as well, so I wholly share the view that we badly need a regulatory light touch.14301429Lord Triesman
: My Lords, if there is not a specific duty in this area and we still find that children with disabilities are failing and not achieving their full potential, as they currently do, is the Minister effectively saying that there will be an increasing role for specialist and special schools because educational standards are the priority?Lord Addington
: My Lords, a researcher from a young offender institution in Wales, reporting yesterday at the Howard League for Penal Reform, said that many young men leaving such institutions choose to reject assistance and return to their families. Does the noble Baroness recognise that very often that family support is not there so they will shortly fall out of that "suitable accommodation" as it is recorded? Furthermore, the governors of young offender institutions are not aware when a young person has come through the care system. The same information is not provided as when a child enters the juvenile estate. Will she look into seeing whether that can be remedied?The Earl of Listowel
1362Transitions,"We need a strong work-focused route designed specifically to motivate those 14–16 year-old young people who are at the most risk and who we know would be motivated by a different learning environment … We will therefore develop and pilot a strongly work-focused programme aimed at those with serious barriers to re-engagement"."A new means of re-engaging the disaffected","The quality of learning depends heavily on the quality of teaching. Time would enable teachers, lecturers and trainers to do more of what they do best—that is to inspire learners by delivering a varied, relevant and interesting curriculum in ways that motivate them".1361"What is apparent to us, particularly by looking at successful 14–19 systems abroad, is that vocational learning is not just a matter of contributing skills to the economy, nor of providing opportunities to young people who find difficulty with academic subjects—though it can do both of these things. Soundly-based vocational education is an absolutely key feature in the education project itself as it is capable of attracting large numbers of young people to participate in, and attain at, advanced level study".: My Lords, I too warmly thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, for this opportunity to think how we can be less wasteful of the full potential of our 14 to 19 year-olds. I also record my appreciation and thanks for the news in the Budget that there will be further consistent investment, particularly in teachers. Various speakers have mentioned the distinction between GCSEs, GCEs and vocational qualifications. Yesterday, I was reminded of the work of Shaftesbury Homes and Arethusa, which does an outstanding job in ensuring that children in residential care do far better than many of their peers in education. Its education officer insists that her children get GCSEs because they see it as the gold standard. There is a danger that if the dichotomy continues, such thinking will continue, but I recognise that the problem is difficult to address.1362Transitions,"We need a strong work-focused route designed specifically to motivate those 14–16 year-old young people who are at the most risk and who we know would be motivated by a different learning environment … We will therefore develop and pilot a strongly work-focused programme aimed at those with serious barriers to re-engagement"."A new means of re-engaging the disaffected","The quality of learning depends heavily on the quality of teaching. Time would enable teachers, lecturers and trainers to do more of what they do best—that is to inspire learners by delivering a varied, relevant and interesting curriculum in ways that motivate them".1361"What is apparent to us, particularly by looking at successful 14–19 systems abroad, is that vocational learning is not just a matter of contributing skills to the economy, nor of providing opportunities to young people who find difficulty with academic subjects—though it can do both of these things. Soundly-based vocational education is an absolutely key feature in the education project itself as it is capable of attracting large numbers of young people to participate in, and attain at, advanced level study".The Earl of Listowel
: My Lords, I intervene because the noble Lord, Lord Howell of Guildford, referred to my words "a sham". I did not mean the parliament itself was a sham. I was referring to the interim Prime Minister's own words, saying that they should by now be forming a government. He was very depressed that they were not.Lord Dykes
"American withdrawal will be represented as a reward far a job well done. The rest of the world will recognise it as a humiliating defeat, and it is here that the analogy of Vietnam is inadequate. The Iraq war has been lost far more quickly than that in Southeast Asia, and the impact on the world is potentially much greater … The full implications of such a blow to American power cannot be foreseen. One consequence is clear enough, however. The world has seen the last of liberal imperialism. It died on the killing fields of Iraq".WS 72.Official Report,1398"The visit of President Bush to Europe, so early in his second term, confirmed the importance he attaches to the transatlantic alliance. All leaders agreed on the need for the EU and US to
WS 72.Official Report,1398ex-post"The country cannot remain as it is now. There are things that need to be done and a decision needs to be arrived at".13971396: My Lords, I too thank the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for his initiative in giving us such a meticulous and detailed analysis of the situation. I wish we could all be optimistic, but the tone struck by the noble Baroness, Lady Turner of Camden, alas may fit the bill. It is sad to say that the situation looks very ominous indeed."American withdrawal will be represented as a reward far a job well done. The rest of the world will recognise it as a humiliating defeat, and it is here that the analogy of Vietnam is inadequate. The Iraq war has been lost far more quickly than that in Southeast Asia, and the impact on the world is potentially much greater … The full implications of such a blow to American power cannot be foreseen. One consequence is clear enough, however. The world has seen the last of liberal imperialism. It died on the killing fields of Iraq".WS 72.Official Report,1398"The visit of President Bush to Europe, so early in his second term, confirmed the importance he attaches to the transatlantic alliance. All leaders agreed on the need for the EU and US to
WS 72.Official Report,1398ex-post"The country cannot remain as it is now. There are things that need to be done and a decision needs to be arrived at".13971396Lord Dykes
: My Lords—Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, is my noble friend aware that it is up to him and his department to repair the damage caused by the failure to impose specific duties on schools, as discussed during the passage of the Disability Discrimination Bill, which went through the House of Commons and House of Lords a few weeks ago? That failure has caused the present problem. Some schools are bound to refuse to promote equality for disabled children and the children will suffer unless the policy is reversed, and reversed quickly.Lord Ashley of Stoke
: My Lords, I shall be extremely brief but it is appropriate to congratulate the Government on having listened to the concerns of the business community and, more importantly, on having heeded them.Lord Gordon of Strathblane
13851384: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for introducing this debate. In a different way I want to pick up on some of the issues just raised by the noble Lord, Lord Giddens.13851384The Lord Bishop of Chelmsford
13931392"Humanitarian assistance must be provided in accordance with the principles of humanity, neutrality and impartiality",1391: My Lords, we must all be grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for gibing us this timely opportunity on the very day that the new Iraqi Assembly meets.13931392"Humanitarian assistance must be provided in accordance with the principles of humanity, neutrality and impartiality",1391The Earl of Sandwich
Guardian,I don't know what to say or describe; it is something expected (as the outcome of) war but (it is still) unbelievable".1395Regarding medical care you won't believe me if I tell you we have lost the rules and systems in the hospitals and other medical care, like a ship in the sea without a captain. There has been
1395Lack of services is the other problem, electricity in the best conditions is no more than 9hrs every day. Water supply: if you are lucky you can get it at night time. The other main services I can say are forgotten."Basra is relatively safer than other cities but still security is the main problem. Kidnapping is still there besides killing for no reason. Just yesterday they kidnapped 2 daughters of a doctor in the medical college from their school. You can say there is no government, our problem now is that the people don't respect any orders as if living in a jungle. Besides the City is filled with foreigners mainly from Iran.Lancet'BMJLancet"We don't do body counts".1394: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for initiating the debate and opening it with such a well-informed speech. I shall concentrate on the health of the Iraqi people, but if there is time, I shall also touch on the situation of the Assyrians in Iraq.Guardian,I don't know what to say or describe; it is something expected (as the outcome of) war but (it is still) unbelievable".1395Regarding medical care you won't believe me if I tell you we have lost the rules and systems in the hospitals and other medical care, like a ship in the sea without a captain. There has been
1395Lack of services is the other problem, electricity in the best conditions is no more than 9hrs every day. Water supply: if you are lucky you can get it at night time. The other main services I can say are forgotten."Basra is relatively safer than other cities but still security is the main problem. Kidnapping is still there besides killing for no reason. Just yesterday they kidnapped 2 daughters of a doctor in the medical college from their school. You can say there is no government, our problem now is that the people don't respect any orders as if living in a jungle. Besides the City is filled with foreigners mainly from Iran.Lancet'BMJLancet"We don't do body counts".1394Lord Rea
"in all countries knowledge and applied intelligence have become central to economic success and personal and social well-being."13541353: My Lords, I too thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for initiating this
"in all countries knowledge and applied intelligence have become central to economic success and personal and social well-being."13541353Lord Walton of Detchant
: My Lords, is there not some contradiction in what the noble Lord, Lord Lucas, is saying? Speaking as an academic, if the schools had more people with the IB, the universities would indeed take notice of that recognition and recruit people on a broad basis. Personally, I did a narrow A-level; it would have been a lot better if I had had a broader education. Giving people a broader education, as is done on the Continent, is highly beneficial. The noble Lord seems to have moved away from that tack in his speech.Lord Hunt of Chesterton
1346: My Lords, I congratulate the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, on securing this debate. From these Benches, I can say that we wholeheartedly supported the central aim of Tomlinson—and would have expected the Government to do so far more explicitly. The aim of breaking down the barriers between the academic and the so-called vocational pathways seemed to be at the heart of the government Green Paper which led to the Tomlinson report in the first place. I speak for schools all over the country, such as St Luke's in Portsmouth, which vocational GCSE programmes have helped to turn into the seventh most improved school in the country. That is not just in terms of hard and fast results, but also in atmosphere, ethos and character.1346The Lord Bishop of Portsmouth
13561355: My Lords. we are deeply in debt to the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, for keeping these important matters before us and for giving us this opportunity to discuss in such a free way the proposals of the Tomlinson report and the White Paper that responds to it.
13561355Lord Griffiths of Burry Port
1334: My Lords, the police need to regain the confidence of the public, and that is certainly not helped by unattainable national targets that are set centrally and take little account of local needs, which in this case is reflected in Nottingham. There has been a damning report from the Commission for Racial Equality, and only yesterday Sir Michael Bichard
1334Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, will the Minister look at the valuable work carried out by organisations such as the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders? I declare an interest in that I preside over a committee of that organisation. Will she ensure that there is no cut in the grant it receives as the valuable work it does on resettlement actually stops reoffending? I should point out that more than 65 per cent of offenders reoffend within two years of leaving prison.Lord Dholakia
: My Lords, I am sorry if I appeared to do that. I think it is highly beneficial, but if we are going to create that in the 14 to 19 group we have to encourage universities to offer courses which keep the breadth. There will always be some who want to do physics—and go on to be nuclear physicists—or whose talents are narrow, but many people should be encouraged to keep the breadth. We need universities to come along with us in doing that. In terms of their product offering, there is at the moment no sign of them doing so. I do not believe we should rush into changes for the 14 to 19 group until we have the universities with us on this.Lord Lucas
TES13441343"'It was just awful' … 'I found it patronising' … 'superficial' … I have never felt so disappointed and angry"'.TES: My Lords, I am delighted that the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, has given us an opportunity to discuss Tomlinson. The same delight does not seem to have been experienced by the Secretary of State for Education and Skills when she addressed the conference of the Secondary Heads Association recently. The TES13441343"'It was just awful' … 'I found it patronising' … 'superficial' … I have never felt so disappointed and angry"'.TESLord Lucas
"We pray for the victims of tyranny, that they may resist oppression with courage. We pray for wicked and cruel men, whose arrogance reveals to us what the sin of our own hearts is like when it is conceived and brought forth its final fruit".1401"Since one nation is part of a whole world, and since the Christian province is a part of the whole Christian state, if any war should be advantageous to one province or nation but injurious to the world or to Christendom, it is my belief, that, for this very reason, that war is unjust".Lancet14001399: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for this debate on such an important subject. Clearly, getting the economic, political and security aspects right over the next months is absolutely crucial. People need to move about safely, they need political stability, and the economy needs to develop."We pray for the victims of tyranny, that they may resist oppression with courage. We pray for wicked and cruel men, whose arrogance reveals to us what the sin of our own hearts is like when it is conceived and brought forth its final fruit".1401"Since one nation is part of a whole world, and since the Christian province is a part of the whole Christian state, if any war should be advantageous to one province or nation but injurious to the world or to Christendom, it is my belief, that, for this very reason, that war is unjust".Lancet14001399The Lord Bishop of Oxford
1418: My Lords, I am extremely grateful to the Minister for introducing the order so clearly. As I look around the far-from-crowded Chamber, I think that that makes the argument for taking such debates
1418Lord Newby
Economist14261425: My Lords, we on the Liberal Democrat Benches welcome the introduction of the OFR. In doing so I ought to declare an interest as a chairman of a company that advises others on corporate social responsibility.Economist14261425Lord Newby
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the Minister for her helpful reply. A chief constable who is facing an explosion of crime in a particular part of his area inevitably first concentrates his own resources on that problem. There is a limit to how far he can reduce the policing in the remainder of his force area. The same reasoning applies when he goes to neighbouring forces for assistance, if that becomes necessary. Does the Home Office retain within its budget a reserve that would enable it specifically to offer resource assistance in such a situation as exists now in Nottinghamshire?Lord Dixon-Smith
: My Lords, does the Minister approve of the vociferous criticism of the Chief Constable by Labour members of Nottinghamshire County Council and Nottingham City Council, and particularly Labour Members of Parliament, bearing in mind that most or all of them would have been enthusiastic supporters of the "More cops for Notts" campaign in 2003, which had such massive support across the county?Viscount Bridgeman
1424Review.1423Company Law: My Lords, perhaps I may reassure the Minister that I support the regulations. The only interest I declare is one I share with the noble Lord, Lord Gordon, in that I belong to the most excellent initiative of some Members of your Lordships' House in the formation of the All-Party Parliamentary Corporate Governance Group. It held an excellent meeting this morning.1424Review.1423Company LawLord Freeman
1390"corruption will be huge and Iraq reconstruction will turn into one of the biggest corruption scandals in history"."large contractors such as Bechtel have introduced business ethics courses"."neither been briefed nor received the draft report, despite requests to the CPA"."contrary to earlier representations by the CPA, the award of metering contracts has been delayed and it is therefore impossible to ascertain that all oil extraction is properly accounted for".1389Official Report,"contract awards worth more than 1.65 billion US dollars".—[Official Report,"functioned well at a variety of levels".1388: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Symons, will be glad to hear that I shall not raise the issue of weapons trailers this evening. I would rather deal with the social and economic consequences referred to in the title of this debate.1390"corruption will be huge and Iraq reconstruction will turn into one of the biggest corruption scandals in history"."large contractors such as Bechtel have introduced business ethics courses"."neither been briefed nor received the draft report, despite requests to the CPA"."contrary to earlier representations by the CPA, the award of metering contracts has been delayed and it is therefore impossible to ascertain that all oil extraction is properly accounted for".1389Official Report,"contract awards worth more than 1.65 billion US dollars".—[Official Report,"functioned well at a variety of levels".1388Lord Redesdale
: My Lords, can the noble Baroness say what proportion of those young offenders referred to in the Question have not taken up the opportunities that she has said are on offer? It would help all noble Lords to know to what extent the options are being taken up.Lord Glenarthur
: My Lords, have the Government considered that the best way of ensuring independence and impartiality of the broadcasting media is to send Mr Alastair Campbell on a very long holiday until 6 May?Lord Strathclyde
: My Lords, does my noble friend agree that this is an indictment against the chief constable himself for his lack of management ability in switching from one area to another?Lord Taylor of Blackburn
1380"Counting casualties accurately can help to save lives both currently and in the future".British Medical Journal1379137813771376rose to call attention to the economic, political and security developments in Iraq since the intervention in 2003 by United Kingdom Armed Forces; and to move for Papers.1380"Counting casualties accurately can help to save lives both currently and in the future".British Medical Journal1379137813771376Lord Garden
1416: My Lords, I will not detain the House for long. I thank everybody who spoke with such depth of knowledge and having done so much research into their areas; it brought a great deal to our short debate. It was important that we looked at where we are going now rather than forever arguing about the past. I am delighted that we had such a valuable debate. We had a degree of consensus from the different perspectives: I saw it as being that noble Lords are all concerned about the future of the Iraqi people, and that that is what we must consider. I was delighted to hear the different views.1416Lord Garden
: My Lords, does the Minister share my disappointment when he switches on a current affairs programme and finds that the issue of the day is being discussed by only a Labour and a Conservative spokesman, particularly when—as so often—the originality and radicalism of the issue has come from the Liberal Democrats? Is it not time that our media stopped playing the politics of Tweedledum and Tweedledee and realised that they are in three-party politics?Lord McNally
13601359: My Lords, I join all those who have congratulated the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, on initiating this very important debate.13601359Lord Pendry
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that it is extraordinary that our society often expects the most in terms of resilience and resourcefulness from the young people who have the least? As many of them have been in local authority care, what steps are being taken to urge local authorities to be good parents to these young people?Lord Laming
13421341"We want to bring back a passion for learning, and enable all learners to achieve as highly as possible and for their achievements to be recognised. We must ensure rigour and that all young people are equipped with the knowledge, skills and attributes needed for HE, employment and adult life".1340: My Lords, I start by thanking the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for bringing forward this debate on a subject that is of major significance to the future of our country. I particularly congratulate the noble Baroness on her exquisite timing
13421341"We want to bring back a passion for learning, and enable all learners to achieve as highly as possible and for their achievements to be recognised. We must ensure rigour and that all young people are equipped with the knowledge, skills and attributes needed for HE, employment and adult life".1340Lord McKenzie of Luton
14061405Foreign Affairs1404: My Lords, I certainly intended to imply that I did not expect the Conservatives to win the election.14061405Foreign Affairs1404Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords, it has been a useful debate. I thank the Minister for being here after getting off a plane at whatever time this morning she got off it. We appreciate that Ministers in the Foreign Office work extremely hard. One of the arguments for having Ministers from the Foreign Office in the Lords is that it cuts down on the amount of constituency business, but it encourages Foreign Secretaries to make Ministers travel even more than would otherwise be the case. We appreciate the Minister's commitment to the Lords, and have very much appreciated the number of useful Foreign Office ministerial and official briefings that we have had; I note that we will have another next week.Lord Wallace of Saltaire
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Roberts of Conwy
1331: My Lords, are the broadcasting authorities, with their vested interests in
1331Lord Roberts of Conwy
1363: My Lords, with the leave of the House, I rise to speak in the gap. 1 am afraid that, due to an administrative error, my name was left off the speaking list. I therefore have to be very brief.1363Baroness Maddock
: My Lords, does the Minister not agree that, proportionately, there has been much more gun crime in Nottinghamshire for the chief constable to deal with than there has been, say, in Greater Manchester, and that it therefore needs further money to enable it to address such very serious organised crime?Baroness Harris of Richmond
: My Lords, I hesitate to interrupt my noble friend's fascinating contribution, but this is a timed debate.Baroness Crawley
Putting the World into World-Class Education1350Every Child Matters"to participate fully and effectively in adult life … be active citizens equipped to contribute to the economic, social, political and cultural life of the country as well as developing an understanding of the wider international community".1349: My Lords, I too am grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp, for bringing
Putting the World into World-Class Education1350Every Child Matters"to participate fully and effectively in adult life … be active citizens equipped to contribute to the economic, social, political and cultural life of the country as well as developing an understanding of the wider international community".1349Baroness Massey of Darwen
1419"confirms that the Department has not hitherto approached this reform with due regard for the position of the consumers"."It appears to us that the fact that it was not until the latter stage of the RRO process that the Department has sought adequately to address this issue—: My Lords, I, too, thank the Minister for his explanation of the order and his short history of how it came about. It is, except in one respect, non-controversial, and I certainly have not received any objections to it.1419"confirms that the Department has not hitherto approached this reform with due regard for the position of the consumers"."It appears to us that the fact that it was not until the latter stage of the RRO process that the Department has sought adequately to address this issue—Baroness Miller of Hendon
14281427: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for his explanation of this rather complex set of regulations. They are complex because of their length. Although the regulations are only 14 pages long, they need 48 pages of explanatory notes from the DTI. However, the Minister explained the regulations so well that I did not need to read the notes.14281427Baroness Miller of Hendon
141514141413141214111410: My Lords, I, too, thank the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for moving this debate this evening and I thank him for the way in which he approached it. He did so in a constructive manner and your Lordships have approached and participated in our discussions in a most constructive way—especially, if I may say so, the noble Lord, Lord Howell of Guildford, even if he has been a little lonely on his Benches in so doing.141514141413141214111410Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean
: My Lords, I am terribly sorry to interrupt the noble Lord, but does that mean that he acknowledges that the Labour Party will win the election? What he says seems to imply that. I am delighted in his comments.The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean)
1348: My Lords, like other noble Lords I am very grateful to the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, for giving the House a chance to debate the Tomlinson report and for the things she said. It is a pity that there was not a chance to debate it before but at least we now have the advantage of being able to discuss the Government's response at the same time.1348Baroness Warnock
1366"combines vision with practical detail",13651364: My Lords, I also thank my noble friend Lady Sharp for giving us the opportunity to discuss this very important matter today. There have been so many excellent and impassioned speeches in this debate that it is a great challenge for those of us winding to do it justice. I shall do my best.1366"combines vision with practical detail",13651364Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, the Minister has spoken about early intervention. What progress is being made with local education authorities and schools concerning children with ME, where the boundary between them being sick and becoming disabled is affected by the way in which schools treat them? If those children are pushed too hard they will become disabled. What is being done about that and about home tuition for such children?The Countess of Mar
133913381337"In a system so caught up with what is measurable, we can forget that learning is also about problem-solving, learning to learn, acquiring the capability for intelligent choice in exercising personal responsibility. It is a weapon against poverty. It is the route to participation and active citizenship".1336rose to call attention to the Government's response to the Tomlinson report and to ways in which more 16 to 19 year-olds can be encouraged to participate in education and training; and to move for Papers.133913381337"In a system so caught up with what is measurable, we can forget that learning is also about problem-solving, learning to learn, acquiring the capability for intelligent choice in exercising personal responsibility. It is a weapon against poverty. It is the route to participation and active citizenship".1336Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that it is also very important that pupils have good guidance so that students know what offers are available to them?Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords—Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for his thoughtful response, and all noble Lords for their participation in the debate. I hope that the Minister will bring this very good debate to the Secretary of State's attention because it has been useful.Baroness Sharp of Guildford
1387jilbab,1386: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Garden, for introducing this important debate, and for the measured way in which he did so. As I have said before in this House, I opposed the war in Iraq. It was based on a false premise; there were no weapons of mass destruction. Many of us doubted that there were any at the outset. Nor does what has happened since the invasion, including the election held recently, in any way justify what I believe to have been an unprovoked attack on a weak and relatively defenceless country. What has happened since has certainly not improved life for a large proportion of Iraqis.1387jilbab,1386Baroness Turner of Camden
Official Report,"We must also transform vocational opportunities".—[Official Report,13681367"Only by giving head teachers and their professional colleagues the freedom to set their own academic agendas in line with their admissions policies will classrooms once more become the orderly and happy places in which children can learn and excel".: My Lords, I welcome this opportunity to speak from these Benches in this important and significant debate. I thank the noble Baroness, Lady Sharp of Guildford, for initiating it and I greatly enjoyed the contributions of all noble Lords. Like the noble Baroness, Lady Walmsley, I found them imaginative and thought-provoking.Official Report,"We must also transform vocational opportunities".—[Official Report,13681367"Only by giving head teachers and their professional colleagues the freedom to set their own academic agendas in line with their admissions policies will classrooms once more become the orderly and happy places in which children can learn and excel".Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, during the passage of the Disability Discrimination Bill in this House, the noble Baroness, Lady Hollis, mentioned that the Government were creating a resource hank to help schools to make adjustments to their policies and practice to prevent discrimination against disabled pupils. Can the Minister provide us with an update of how that scheme is progressing and when it is likely to be operational?Baroness Morris of Bolton
: My Lords, youth offending teams work directly with housing authorities, social services, housing providers and voluntary groups to provide accommodation support packages. When a young person is unable to return to the family home, or it is not appropriate that he or she should return, there is support in the forms of foster care, supported lodgings, hostel places or foyer schemes which combine accommodation with training and educational opportunities.The Minister of State, Home Office (Baroness Scotland of Asthal)
: My Lords, I accept what the noble Earl says in relation to the need for care. I do not accept that it does not happen. The noble Earl will know that we have put a lot of effort into the planning for young people to make sure that the support, even when they go home, is appropriate. We very much take on board that the young offender may wish to go home. That will not always be the best place for the person to be, unless there is appropriate support. So there is planning.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the noble Lord is absolutely right about the work that needs to be done. He will know that the work of the Youth Justice Board and the youth offender teams and the work we are doing with local authorities enable better planning to take place for those young people so that they have the appropriate level of care, attention and input to maximise the opportunities of their not returning to crime.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1330: My Lords, if the noble Lord is referring to suitable accommodation, nationally
1330Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I certainly pay tribute to that work. I shall certainly look—indeed, officials have looked—at the care and resettlement of offenders. In answering the Question of the noble Earl, Lord Dundee, I should have made it clear that we also identify employment as an important issue. The noble Lord will know that I can say nothing about funding.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I do not accept that current planning is as the noble Earl suggests. However, I accept that early planning is certainly a very good thing. It is in line with the way in which the Government hope that these matters will be dealt with: a holistic approach that will, from the very beginning, look at the best way of reducing the level of reoffending by the offender. We certainly hope that that will be delivered through the new arrangements that we have through YOTs—youth offending teams—and the movement in relation to the National Offender Management Service provisions.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1335: My Lords, I agree with the noble Baroness that gun crime in Nottinghamshire
1335Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, they are involved in all the administrative and other services to support officers and to ensure that there is proper delivery. Those two services—what the front-line police officers do and what the civilian employees do to support them—are very well integrated and deliver very high quality results in a number of constabularies.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
1333: My Lords, first, the general police grant to Nottinghamshire has risen from £104.7 million to £132.8 million, an increase of over 26 per cent or £28 million in cash terms. In real terms there has been an increase to 4.5 per cent. There is
1333Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: I am sorry, my Lords. I was enjoying the noble Lord's joke so much that I did not rise to my feet quickly enough.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
"in Nottinghamshire in 2002, when a comparison of its performance was made both nationally and against its most similar forces … there were 154 crimes per 1,000 population in Nottinghamshire, 17.6% of which were detected. In comparison, there was an average of 118 crimes per 1,000 population in Nottinghamshire's most similar forces, 23.4% of which were detected. In terms of burglary and vehicle crime, the Force was failing to meet its 5-year national crime reduction targets, indeed in each case the Force was showing an increase against the baseline figure, rather than a reduction. Overall its performance was in the bottom quarter of forces nationally".: My Lords, it is right to say that Nottinghamshire has been one of the forces which have been challenged. Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary said, first in 2003, that the performance of the Nottinghamshire police has been poor for a number of years. In its second report it said that,
"in Nottinghamshire in 2002, when a comparison of its performance was made both nationally and against its most similar forces … there were 154 crimes per 1,000 population in Nottinghamshire, 17.6% of which were detected. In comparison, there was an average of 118 crimes per 1,000 population in Nottinghamshire's most similar forces, 23.4% of which were detected. In terms of burglary and vehicle crime, the Force was failing to meet its 5-year national crime reduction targets, indeed in each case the Force was showing an increase against the baseline figure, rather than a reduction. Overall its performance was in the bottom quarter of forces nationally".Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, as I understand it, the criticism is based on the information that they have about the true picture that pertains in Nottinghamshire. Of course it is a matter for the House, but I should tell noble Lords that the figures that the Nottinghamshire force has produced indicate that all crime is down by 10 per cent, domestic burglary is down by 24 per cent, robbery is down by 28 per cent, vehicle crime is down by 16 per cent and violent crime remains about stable but is slightly below the levels of those forces against which it is compared. Bearing in mind the increase in funding and the improvement in the statistics, I am not surprised that those who come from Nottinghamshire are disappointed by what the Chief Constable has said.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, the standards are not unattainable. I say that because forces up and down the country, with appropriate vigour and application, are obtaining those standards. According to Nottinghamshire's own figures, confidence in it has gone up. Its September 2004 figures demonstrate a confidence figure of 37.9 per cent against a trajectory point of 30.8 per cent for that time. Nottinghamshire's confidence performance is perhaps not as high as that of most other local criminal justice boards but it has made improvements. The HMIC will report to my right honourable friend the Home Secretary on any matter that it thinks is pertinent.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend that constabularies up and down the country are doing very well. They have put a huge amount of effort into improving the figures, narrowing the justice gap and bringing more offenders to justice. Overall, crime has fallen 30 per cent since 1997 and the chance of being a victim is at its lowest since the British Crime Survey began in 1981. That is as a result of the hard work, dedication and application of our police service, and I celebrate them.Baroness Scotland of Asthal
: My Lords, is the Minister aware of the acute concern among leading disability organisations that the Government have not included schools in a key part of the specific new public sector duties under the Disability Discrimination Act? Does he not agree that those specific duties, which require key bodies to draw up disability equality schemes and to monitor and report on their progress, would provide an important framework which would greatly help schools to fulfil their statutory responsibilities? For example, there is no requirement to monitor the present accessibility plans. Last year's Ofsted report showed that fewer than half of schools had those plans, which should have been in place two years ago.Baroness Wilkins
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Wilkins
(Baroness Amos.): My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, the Government are committed to safeguarding learning for personal fulfilment which does not necessarily lead to qualifications. That includes opportunities for the over 50s. The Learning and Skills Council's budget for such learning, delivered through local education authorities, increased from £206 million in 2003–04 to £207.4 million in 2004–05, compared with £145 million in 2000–01. In 2003–04 there were about 879,000 adults aged 50 or over in further education, an increase of about 80 per cent over 1997–98.Lord Triesman
1434: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. Is he aware that when the Learning and Skills Bill went through this House in 2000 we received extensive assurances from the Minister that adult services would not suffer as a result of any
1434Baroness Sharp of Guildford
: My Lords, like everybody else, I hear anecdotes about who feels squeezed. I hope the House will forgive me if I go back to the raw facts. An 80 per cent increase in the number of people taking the kinds of courses which apparently are at risk seems to be a significant change and achievement. I hope that the House will accept that the whole process is a lifelong learning process. That means life-long; it is not just about adults but relates to the whole thrust of policies right the way through from childhood and involves building skills for life.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, if life-long learning is to become a reality, will the Minister accept that age should be relevant when you are looking at who is interested in a course?Baroness Greengross
: My Lords, I accept that in the past there have been distortions of these processes. The House is aware of those. Indeed, my noble friend Lady Ashton agreed to set up a special working party to consider age restrictions in a number of areas. I know that the noble Baroness served on that body. It made its recommendations to Dr Kim Howells on 19 January. I am not in a position to make the announcements that I believe he will make within the next couple of days, but I think that its recommendations were extremely influential in the areas the noble Baroness has just drawn to our attention.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, the Open University is dear to the hearts of a high proportion of noble Lords. I have been concerned by reading articles in the press which I have taken the liberty of disbelieving as a general principle, and then going back again to the facts.Lord Triesman
: My Lords, does the Minister accept that part of the limitation on access for the over-50s might be to do with the shortage of staff? What do the Government intend to do about the fact that teachers in FE colleges, who teach the same subject to the same level as sixth-form teachers in schools, are paid 10 per cent less?Baroness Walmsley
: My Lords, no one will expect me to intervene in the bargaining arrangements for further education and the settlements achieved there when compared with the system of pay reviewing which occurs for teachers. I point out that £1 billion of total funding for further education has been set aside as an increase between 2002–03 and 2005–06. That should produce some leeway for all sorts of flexibility, including in salaries—but that is, as I say, a matter for the colleges.Lord Triesman
1548MH v the Secretary of State for Health,15471546: My Lords, I have tabled Amendment No. 107A. It is extremely detailed and I am quite sure that my noble friend the Minister has a speaking note which says that it is much too prescriptive, is probably unworkable and that it needs some redrafting. However, one thing that my noble friend will not be able to say is that the amendment is unnecessary on the ground that there is a Bournewood gap and a solution
1548MH v the Secretary of State for Health,15471546Lord Carter
[Best interests]:(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.): My Lords, I beg to move that the Bill be now further considered on Report.[Best interests]:(Baroness Ashton of Upholland.)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(a) the person's past and present wishes and feelings"."must consider, so far as is reasonably ascertainable—
(a) the person's past and present wishes and feelings".1442Page 3, line 17, after "feelings", insert "(and, in particular, any relevant written statement made by him when he had capacity)"moved Amendment No. 8:
(a) the person's past and present wishes and feelings"."must consider, so far as is reasonably ascertainable—
(a) the person's past and present wishes and feelings".1442Page 3, line 17, after "feelings", insert "(and, in particular, any relevant written statement made by him when he had capacity)"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(d) to communicate his decision"."a person is unable to make a decision for himself if he is unable—
(d) to communicate his decision".1443"( ) Nothing in this Act shall permit the withdrawing or withholding from any person of nutrition or hydration, howsoever provided, save where the provision thereof would itself cause harm or burden to the person greater than if the nutrition or hydration were not provided."Page 3, line 39, at end insert—
"( ) Nothing in this Act shall permit the withdrawing or withholding from any person of nutrition or hydration, howsoever provided, save where the provision thereof would itself cause harm or burden to the person greater than if the nutrition or hydration were not provided."moved Amendment No. 9:
(d) to communicate his decision"."a person is unable to make a decision for himself if he is unable—
(d) to communicate his decision".1443"( ) Nothing in this Act shall permit the withdrawing or withholding from any person of nutrition or hydration, howsoever provided, save where the provision thereof would itself cause harm or burden to the person greater than if the nutrition or hydration were not provided."Page 3, line 39, at end insert—
"( ) Nothing in this Act shall permit the withdrawing or withholding from any person of nutrition or hydration, howsoever provided, save where the provision thereof would itself cause harm or burden to the person greater than if the nutrition or hydration were not provided."Baroness Chapman
1447: My Lords, I support the amendment standing in the name of my noble friend. I also pay tribute to the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, who has just resumed her seat. She previously put before your Lordships' House her Patient's Protection Bill and has assiduously pursued this issue. believing, as she does, that we need to give every possible protection in the Bill to vulnerable people. I know that all parts of this House are not so far apart in wanting to achieve that objective.1447Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, I rise just to remind the noble Lord that the Joint Committee that I chaired on the draft Bill recommended that there should be a clause in the Bill along the lines of Clause 58 which, strictly speaking in law, is not necessary. It is a declaratory clause and was brought forward, as I say. as a result of the recommendation made by the Joint Committee.Lord Carter
1450Official Report,"we are all entitled to follow the dictates of our conscience, but not perhaps by attempting to impose them on others through legislation".—[Official Report,1449Official Report,"A doctor does not need an Act of Parliament to teach him that elementary duty".—[Official Report,Making Decisions,"Professor Finnis and I believe that a further amendment is still needed to ensure that the Bill confers no authority on expressly suicidal advance decisions. We therefore strongly support efforts of Members of both Houses who are seeking to introduce an amendment to exclude decisions from being given validity or authority by a Bill where they have a purpose of bringing about death or are motivated by a desire of doing so. I very much hope the government will reconsider its opposition to inserting such an amendment. which we firmly believe can be made without affecting the jurisdiction of the courts affirmed in the Bland case".1448: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord. Lord Carter, for reminding us of that. He will also confirm that throughout the consideration period Professor Finnis had extensive discussions with the department and ensured that this provision was
1450Official Report,"we are all entitled to follow the dictates of our conscience, but not perhaps by attempting to impose them on others through legislation".—[Official Report,1449Official Report,"A doctor does not need an Act of Parliament to teach him that elementary duty".—[Official Report,Making Decisions,"Professor Finnis and I believe that a further amendment is still needed to ensure that the Bill confers no authority on expressly suicidal advance decisions. We therefore strongly support efforts of Members of both Houses who are seeking to introduce an amendment to exclude decisions from being given validity or authority by a Bill where they have a purpose of bringing about death or are motivated by a desire of doing so. I very much hope the government will reconsider its opposition to inserting such an amendment. which we firmly believe can be made without affecting the jurisdiction of the courts affirmed in the Bland case".1448Lord Alton of Liverpool
"We hold most strongly that death by dehydration is unacceptable, inhumane and leads to a slow and painful death".: My Lords, I have put my name to the amendments. It was mistakenly omitted from Amendment No. 9A. Many people feel that the Bill is still not clear enough in safeguarding at-risk and vulnerable people as regards food and fluid."We hold most strongly that death by dehydration is unacceptable, inhumane and leads to a slow and painful death".Baroness Masham of Ilton
1451: My Lords, I oppose the amendments, but I recognise the cases that the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, has mentioned. Cases of bad care come across my desk every day. Amid the many hundreds of thousands of treatments that are given every year, such cases undoubtedly exist. I would be the first to say that we needed better professional practice than to allow people to remain in that sort of distress.1451Baroness Murphy
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Baroness completely, but basic care is in the Bill. The way we must address the best interests of the patients is by proving good clinical practice. I believe that there are safeguards in the Bill. Clause 58, for example, would satisfactorily address the concerns of the noble Baroness. We must tackle the problems that the noble Baroness is raising very vigorously, but this Bill is not the place to do it in this way.Baroness Murphy
1453: My Lords, I must make absolutely clear, despite the great sincerity and force with which the proposers of the amendment have put forward their case, my reasons for deciding, after very careful thought and consideration, that I cannot support it.1453Lord Walton of Detchant
1454"The undisputed consensus of eminent medical opinion is that there is no prospect whatever that Anthony Bland will ever make any recovery from his present condition, but that there is every likelihood that he will maintain his present state of existence for many years to come, provided that the medical care which he is now receiving is continued".: My Lords, I wish to address myself to the phrase in Amendment No. 9A relating to the withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment. A lot of what I was going to say has just been said by the noble Lord, Lord Walton of Detchant, and I need not say any more about the Bland judgment except to quote from it a crucial sentence by Lord Keith of Kinkel. He referred to the state of Tony Bland's brain and so on, and went on to say:
1454"The undisputed consensus of eminent medical opinion is that there is no prospect whatever that Anthony Bland will ever make any recovery from his present condition, but that there is every likelihood that he will maintain his present state of existence for many years to come, provided that the medical care which he is now receiving is continued".Lord Carter
: My Lords, on that point, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Carter, but does he recall that I raised at an earlier stage of our proceedings the case of Andrew Devine, who also entered a persistent vegetative state, on the same day as Tony Bland. He was a constituent of mine then, when I represented a constituency in Liverpool. The noble Lord will recall that it was at the Hillsborough Liverpool game that these terrible events occurred. Five years later Andrew Devine recovered; he is still alive today and has been fed subsequently. Therefore, the predictive nature of the decisions that have been made cannot always be accurate. Also, it is not the intention of the movers of this amendment to overturn that.Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, that intervention is extremely helpful, because it goes to the heart of the debate. I do not believe that the noble Lord, Lord Alton, believes that those who care for people who are in a persistent vegetative state should have the power to seek the court's approval for the ending of artificial nutrition and hydration so that their life can come to an end. That is a clear division of opinion, and I entirely respect the noble Lord's sincerity. There are those who believe, entirely sincerely, that the beginning and end of life belongs to the Creator and not to us—and I understand those who feel like that.
But I do not believe that they should attempt to impose that opinion on the rest of society through legislation.Lord Carter
1457Bland"It is relevant to consider the objects of medical care … traditionally they have been (1) to prevent the occurrence of illness, injury or deformity … (2) to cure illness when it does occur; (3) where illness cannot be cured, to prevent or retard deterioration of the patient's conditions; (4) to relieve pain and suffering in body and mind. I doubt if it has ever been an object of medical care merely to prolong the life of an insensate patient with no hope of recovery where nothing can be done to promote any of these objects. But until relatively recently the question could scarcely have arisen since the medical technology to prolong life in this way did not exist"."if, presciently, Mr. Bland had given instructions that he should not be artificially fed or treated with antibiotics if he should become a P.V.S. patient, his doctors would not act unlawfully in complying with those instructions but would act unlawfully if they did not comply, even though the patient's death would inevitably follow. If Mr. Bland were a child and a ward of the court, it would decide what was in his best interests, having regard to the views of his parents but not treating them as conclusive … This case is novel because Mr. Bland is not a child and a ward of court, he is immune to suffering and, as already stated, he gave no instructions concerning his treatment if he were to become a P.V.S. patient".Bland.14561455: My Lords, I promise not to bore the House by repeating the summary that I attempted to make on Tuesday of the legal and ethical principles reflected in the Bland decision, but I would like briefly to deal with one or two matters that have arisen today on the amendments.
1457Bland"It is relevant to consider the objects of medical care … traditionally they have been (1) to prevent the occurrence of illness, injury or deformity … (2) to cure illness when it does occur; (3) where illness cannot be cured, to prevent or retard deterioration of the patient's conditions; (4) to relieve pain and suffering in body and mind. I doubt if it has ever been an object of medical care merely to prolong the life of an insensate patient with no hope of recovery where nothing can be done to promote any of these objects. But until relatively recently the question could scarcely have arisen since the medical technology to prolong life in this way did not exist"."if, presciently, Mr. Bland had given instructions that he should not be artificially fed or treated with antibiotics if he should become a P.V.S. patient, his doctors would not act unlawfully in complying with those instructions but would act unlawfully if they did not comply, even though the patient's death would inevitably follow. If Mr. Bland were a child and a ward of the court, it would decide what was in his best interests, having regard to the views of his parents but not treating them as conclusive … This case is novel because Mr. Bland is not a child and a ward of court, he is immune to suffering and, as already stated, he gave no instructions concerning his treatment if he were to become a P.V.S. patient".Bland.14561455Lord Lester of Herne Hill
: My Lords, we are moving off into other areas. Regarding the first question, we have enshrined the right of a loved one to be consulted, which does not exist at all at the moment. We have also put in the Bill provision for a lasting power of attorney, so you can give to your loved one the ability to act on your behalf in a whole range of issues, including medical treatment. In all of those contexts, we have said that when you are treating someone the best interests of the patient are paramount. So if you have appointed a lasting power of attorney, but, on listening to that person, the doctor feels that he or she is not acting in the best interests of the patient, he can say, "I am not satisfied, I am going to treat; and 1 am going to go to court to obtain a decision on this".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I welcome that provision and I am grateful to the Government for having included it. If, for example, a cup of tea was put aside and the patient could not reach it because of his incapacity, that would now be a criminal offence. I think that the Minister is right to remind us that that provision is in the Bill.Lord Alton of Liverpool
1467: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Lord. The provision is important because it is precisely about that point, and we should recognise that. The noble Baroness should take some credit for it, and rightly so.1467Baroness Ashton of Upholland
[Section 5 acts: limitations]:[Amendment No. 10 not moved.][Acts in connection with care or treatment]:[Amendment No. 9A not moved.]1468: My Lords, I thank the Minister for her very detailed response. It is not my intention to
[Section 5 acts: limitations]:[Amendment No. 10 not moved.][Acts in connection with care or treatment]:[Amendment No. 9A not moved.]1468Baroness Chapman
[Payment for necessary goods and services]:1469"The distinction between a deprivation of, and restriction upon, liberty is merely one of degree or intensity and not one of nature or substance"."( ) But D does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention (whether or not D is a public authority)."Page 4, line 28, at end insert—
"( ) But D does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention (whether or not D is a public authority)."moved Amendment No. 11:
[Payment for necessary goods and services]:1469"The distinction between a deprivation of, and restriction upon, liberty is merely one of degree or intensity and not one of nature or substance"."( ) But D does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention (whether or not D is a public authority)."Page 4, line 28, at end insert—
"( ) But D does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention (whether or not D is a public authority)."Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1470(5) It shall be for a party seeking to enforce the contract or objecting to its being set aside to prove that the conditions in subsection (4) are satisfied."(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,
(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,(4) Subsection (3) shall not apply if the following conditions are satisfied—
(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,
(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,"(3) Subject to subsections (1) and (4), a contract purportedly entered into by a person who lacks capacity to enter into the contract is not enforceable against that person and may be set aside on an application to a court made by or on behalf of that person.Page 5, line 2, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 12:
1470(5) It shall be for a party seeking to enforce the contract or objecting to its being set aside to prove that the conditions in subsection (4) are satisfied."(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,
(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,(4) Subsection (3) shall not apply if the following conditions are satisfied—
(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,
(c) failure to enforce the contract against that person or the setting aside of the contract will cause loss or hardship to another party to the contract.(b) no other party to the contract knew or should have known that that person lacked or might lack capacity, and(a) the terms of the contract are fair to the person lacking capacity,"(3) Subject to subsections (1) and (4), a contract purportedly entered into by a person who lacks capacity to enter into the contract is not enforceable against that person and may be set aside on an application to a court made by or on behalf of that person.Page 5, line 2, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
14721471: My Lords, it was amusing to see the noble Lord, Lord Roper, arrive in the middle of the cowshed explanation.14721471Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness. I welcome the fact that her department will undertake a scoping inquiry into the matter. It is an issue of some importance. Although there is a possibility that a situation under the amendment could be a source of abuse, equally there is no doubt that the law as it now stands could be a source of abuse in the other direction.Lord Goodhart
1473Page 5, line 36, leave out "section" and insert "sections 1 (the principles) and"moved Amendment No. 13:
1473Page 5, line 36, leave out "section" and insert "sections 1 (the principles) and"Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, I thank the Government for having responded so positively and constructively to the concerns that I and others raised in Committee. This added emphasis adds value to the Bill. I am grateful to the Government for listening.Earl Howe
Page 37, line 5, leave out from "the" to "4" in line 6 and insert "duties imposed on a donee of a lasting power of attorney under sections 1 (the principles) and"moved Amendment No. 16:
Page 37, line 5, leave out from "the" to "4" in line 6 and insert "duties imposed on a donee of a lasting power of attorney under sections 1 (the principles) and"Baroness Andrews
1474Page 38, line 5, after "severally" insert "in respect of any matter"moved Amendment No. 19:
1474Page 38, line 5, after "severally" insert "in respect of any matter"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, once again, I thank the Government for introducing these amendments, which I agree are beneficial to the Bill. They provide welcome flexibility. The safeguards are still there, but at the same time the Government have ensured that the bureaucracy and procedural aspects are kept to the absolute minimum. I am very happy to endorse the inclusion of the amendments.Earl Howe
Page 38, line 16, leave out "11" and insert "10A"moved Amendment No. 20:
Page 38, line 16, leave out "11" and insert "10A"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(6) Where the court notifies the Public Guardian that it has severed a provision, he must register the instrument with a note to that effect attached to it."(b) direct him not to register the instrument.(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or
(b) direct him not to register the instrument.(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or1475(5) The court must—(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or
(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or(4) Sub-paragraph (5) applies if the court determines under section 23(1) (whether or not on an application by the Public Guardian) that the instrument contains a provision which—(b) pending the determination by the court, must not register the instrument.(a) must apply to the court for it to determine the matter under section 23(1), and
(b) pending the determination by the court, must not register the instrument.(a) must apply to the court for it to determine the matter under section 23(1), and(3) The Public Guardian—(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or
(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or(2) Sub-paragraph (3) applies if it appears to the Public Guardian that the instrument contains a provision which—10A (1) If it appears to the Public Guardian that an instrument accompanying an application under paragraph 4 is not made in accordance with this Schedule, he must not register the instrument unless the court directs him to do so."Instrument not made properly or containing ineffective provision"Instrument not made properly or containing ineffective provisionPage 38. line 43, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 26:
(6) Where the court notifies the Public Guardian that it has severed a provision, he must register the instrument with a note to that effect attached to it."(b) direct him not to register the instrument.(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or
(b) direct him not to register the instrument.(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or1475(5) The court must—(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or
(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or(4) Sub-paragraph (5) applies if the court determines under section 23(1) (whether or not on an application by the Public Guardian) that the instrument contains a provision which—(b) pending the determination by the court, must not register the instrument.(a) must apply to the court for it to determine the matter under section 23(1), and
(b) pending the determination by the court, must not register the instrument.(a) must apply to the court for it to determine the matter under section 23(1), and(3) The Public Guardian—(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or
(b) would prevent the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) would be ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or(2) Sub-paragraph (3) applies if it appears to the Public Guardian that the instrument contains a provision which—10A (1) If it appears to the Public Guardian that an instrument accompanying an application under paragraph 4 is not made in accordance with this Schedule, he must not register the instrument unless the court directs him to do so."Instrument not made properly or containing ineffective provision"Instrument not made properly or containing ineffective provisionPage 38. line 43, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(b) directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument."(a) is satisfied that the ground is not established, and
(b) directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument."(a) is satisfied that the ground is not established, and"(2) if the Public Guardian is satisfied that the ground for making the objection is established, he must not register the instrument unless the court, on the application of the person applying for the registration—Page 39, line 17, leave out sub-paragraph (2) and insert—moved Amendment No. 29:
(b) directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument."(a) is satisfied that the ground is not established, and
(b) directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument."(a) is satisfied that the ground is not established, and"(2) if the Public Guardian is satisfied that the ground for making the objection is established, he must not register the instrument unless the court, on the application of the person applying for the registration—Page 39, line 17, leave out sub-paragraph (2) and insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 41, line 13, leave out "or 21" and insert ", 21 or 21A"21A If in the case of a registered instrument the court notifies the Public Guardian under paragraph 17A(1)(a) that it has severed a provision of the instrument, the Public Guardian must attach to it a note to that effect.""Severance of ineffective provisions"Severance of ineffective provisionsPage 41, line 10, at end insert—(b) direct him to cancel the registration of the instrument as a lasting power of attorney."(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or
(b) direct him to cancel the registration of the instrument as a lasting power of attorney."(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or(2) The court must—(b) prevents the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) is ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or
(b) prevents the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) is ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or"7A (1) Sub-paragraph (2) applies if the court determines under section 23(1) that a lasting power of attorney contains a provision which—Page 40, line 28, at end insert—moved Amendments Nos. 32 to 34:
Page 41, line 13, leave out "or 21" and insert ", 21 or 21A"21A If in the case of a registered instrument the court notifies the Public Guardian under paragraph 17A(1)(a) that it has severed a provision of the instrument, the Public Guardian must attach to it a note to that effect.""Severance of ineffective provisions"Severance of ineffective provisionsPage 41, line 10, at end insert—(b) direct him to cancel the registration of the instrument as a lasting power of attorney."(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or
(b) direct him to cancel the registration of the instrument as a lasting power of attorney."(a) notify the Public Guardian that it has severed the provision, or(2) The court must—(b) prevents the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) is ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or
(b) prevents the instrument from operating as a valid lasting power of attorney.(a) is ineffective as part of a lasting power of attorney, or"7A (1) Sub-paragraph (2) applies if the court determines under section 23(1) that a lasting power of attorney contains a provision which—Page 40, line 28, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 6. line 10, leave out "If" and insert "To the extent to which"(c) jointly in respect of some matters and jointly and severally in respect of others"Page 6, line 9, at end insert ", ormoved Amendments Nos. 35 and 36:
Page 6. line 10, leave out "If" and insert "To the extent to which"(c) jointly in respect of some matters and jointly and severally in respect of others"Page 6, line 9, at end insert ", orBaroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I beg to move that further consideration on Report be now adjourned. In moving the Motion I suggest that the Report stage begin again not before 2.27 p.m.Baroness Andrews
Bland: My Lords, in the United States they use a slightly different test from ours; they use a substituted judgment test rather than a best interests test. But it comes to very much the same thing, and the ethical principles set out in BlandLord Lester of Herne Hill
1458: My Lords, I do not often trouble your Lordships' House with speeches, but I am troubled by a number of the issues that are raised in these amendments. I also think that the noble Lord, Lord Alton of Liverpool, is right in predicting that there may be a bit of trouble—to use "trouble" again—in another place unless we can find some way of perhaps getting some accommodation between all of us who wish to see this Bill on the statute book. But that said, I think that these amendments would ensure that basic care, which includes nutrition and hydration, however provided—as the noble Baroness, Lady Knight of Collingtree, has said, it is not just through tubes but through the mouth—is not withdrawn inappropriately.1458Lord Patten
: My Lords, is the noble Lord aware that the decision of my old opponent in the Bland case, Mr Justice Mumby, as he now is, whose arguments were entirely rejected by the House of Lords in the Bland case, but who is now a learned judge, is now under appeal to the Court of Appeal with the consent of Mr Justice Mumby, and that the medical profession itself wishes to be joined and heard as to why that judgment, with which I respectfully disagree in certain respects, is wrong?Lord Lester of Herne Hill
1459: My Lords, I was not aware of the fact of which the noble Lord has just informed your Lordships. However, nothing in what he said prevents me continuing the argument which I was putting before the Chamber as a non-lawyer.1459Lord Patten
Bland: My Lords, I hope that the noble Lord will forgive me for interrupting. I wish to put three questions to him. Does he agree that the administration of food and fluid through a feeding tube which invades the human body can be construed as medical treatment? I wholly agree with him that the giving of food and fluid to a sentient patient who is perfectly capable of giving or withholding consent is a part of basic care; that I do not deny. However, the noble Lord may remember that many years ago in connection with the Northern Ireland hunger strikers the whole issue was raised whether doctors had the right to force feed them and to force them to take fluid. After a great deal of ethical consideration. it was decided that they did not have that right. In other words, it still stands that the sentient, competent patient has the absolute right to refuse medical treatment even if he or she also refuses food and fluid.BlandLord Walton of Detchant
1461Burke"."in relation to the withdrawal of ANH, the presumption in favour of life-sustaining treatment is not sufficiently strong in the Bill to satisfy the requirements of Articles 2,3 and 8 as explained by the High Court in Burke".1460: My Lords, I entirely agree with the noble Lord in every sense that anything which invades the person is a medical treatment, but it may also be the critical way of delivering basic care. On the second point which the noble Lord made, when I was fortunate enough to join your Lordships' House in 1997, I promised myself never to use the words "I remember". However, I am afraid that I am about to break that promise to myself because I do remember in 1981 and 1982, when I was Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State in Northern Ireland—where I had been sent by the noble Baroness, Lady Thatcher, for disobedience for creating too much trouble on the Back Benches—sitting by the bed of the second of the hunger strikers, God rest his soul. when he was two days away from dying of starvation. The hunger strikers drank Highland Spring water. It was a sad and terrible thing to see. Of course, any hunger striker has the right to do exactly what they will with their own bodies in the sense that it was done in the Maze Prison in those dreadful and sad days. I hope that I never have to say "I remember" again in the time I am spared for the service of your Lordships' House.1461Burke"."in relation to the withdrawal of ANH, the presumption in favour of life-sustaining treatment is not sufficiently strong in the Bill to satisfy the requirements of Articles 2,3 and 8 as explained by the High Court in Burke".1460Lord Patten
146414631462: My Lords, this has been a long and interesting debate. I begin by saying to the noble Baroness, Lady Chapman, who opened the debate, that I was grateful for her words. I want to say something to her at a personal level. When I came into your Lordships' House, I found that I had to get to grips with the fact that the effect of individual words, because we are legislators, is different from that in the world that I came from. I wondered, as the noble Baroness was talking about dealing with words, whether the same thing is happening to her—that sort of journey into understanding that an individual word put in a law can have a huge effect. I shall return to that as I discuss the amendment.146414631462Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, could the Minister now, or at a later stage in her speech, to which I am listening with great care, address the specific question that I asked about why food and water are regarded as a treatment, not basic care?Lord Patten
: My Lords, I was trying to get around that by offering to send the noble Lord specific details of the two sessions held in your Lordships' House with a palliative care expert. He explained specifically why artificial nutrition and hydration were regarded as a treatment. I was trying not to weary your Lordships House because some of us have considered this matter many times. If the noble Lord wishes me to go through that, I am able to do so. However, I felt that it might be of more use for the noble Lord to be able to reflect on the particulars and to talk to the palliative care expert who has made himself available to discuss these matters with any noble Lord who wishes.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for giving way a second time and I shall not trouble her again. But I would ask her to reflect on the fact that there may be all sorts of meetings held by all sorts of people with all sorts of views—particular experts in this place, another place or in buildings outside—but it is in this Chamber, in your Lordships' Chamber, where these issues are debated. It is fundamentally undemocratic to suggest that a Minister should not reply to a point, because it happens to have been exhaustively debated in a couple of sessions held by experts in some other place. That is completely wrong.Lord Patten
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness replies to that, is she aware that the answer was given by the Law Lords, the Court of Appeal and the judge of first instance in Bland? That is the law of the land and it would be pointless to go into it now. The noble Lord and everyone else can read what they have said. That is the law.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
1465Hansard.: My Lords, I was also going to say that I covered this matter in Committee. I am not denying the Chamber the opportunity to discuss it. but we have debated these amendments before. Sadly, the noble Lord was not here and was not able to read 1465Hansard.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I have nearly finished. Comfort is all. The many patients with dementia for whom I have cared often have two serious physical problems at the very end of life. The first is their skin care and the comfortable disposition of their body; and the second is oral care and the hydration of the mouth. Above all, those require good, basic nursing care. It is possible to maintain somebody's hydration without all the artificial, intravenous paraphernalia. When we are near to death, we all crave the right touch more than the right food. It is the individual who has the right to decide in advance, and we should do nothing to undermine that right, as the amendments would.Baroness Murphy
Bland.: My Lords, I am delighted to hear that and glad to know it, because these amendments cannot stand with Bland.Lord Lester of Herne Hill
"this amendment still leaves a major gap. It does not cover advance decisions. The clauses dealing with advance decisions, although tightened up, still leave open the possibility that an expressly suicidal advance decision is binding"."As you know, we have welcomed the Government's amendment to clause 4(5) of the Bill. In our view this provides an important safeguard which, provided the courts interpret it as it is intended, will ensure that doctors, proxies and other third parties are given no authority by the Bill to make decisions with the intention of bringing about a person's death".1488"unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect",: My Lords, I entirely support the amendment of my noble friend Lord Howe, particularly after that helpful response to the important question of the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Worcester."this amendment still leaves a major gap. It does not cover advance decisions. The clauses dealing with advance decisions, although tightened up, still leave open the possibility that an expressly suicidal advance decision is binding"."As you know, we have welcomed the Government's amendment to clause 4(5) of the Bill. In our view this provides an important safeguard which, provided the courts interpret it as it is intended, will ensure that doctors, proxies and other third parties are given no authority by the Bill to make decisions with the intention of bringing about a person's death".1488"unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect",Lord Patten
: My Lords, I am sorry to interrupt the Minister, but I am following her argument as closely as I can. If what she has just said is the case, why are the words that my noble friend Lord Howe wishes to delete necessary?Lord Patten
: My Lords, I am extremely grateful to my noble friend for giving way. I am not a people's Peer, as he knows; I am a simple Peer. At the moment, I simply do not understand why these words are necessary. I am not asking my noble friend to answer this question—I will go away and reflect, as the Minister has rightly instructed us to do, and as we should do. However, I think there is a substantial chance that if these words remain they will become—when this Bill goes to another place, in the minds of people such as Mr Dobbin, on the Labour Benches, or my right honourable friend Mr Duncan Smith, on the Conservative Benches—a loophole issue.Lord Patten
1509"This section applies if a person"—: My Lords, I have several confessions to make. The first is that I have a daughter, aged 50, who is severely handicapped both physically and mentally. She cannot talk; she cannot walk. That is how I happened to become chairman of Mencap and—in spite of the presence of the noble Lord, Lord Rix—I understand that that body is still known, in short, as Mencap. Indeed, the best thing I ever did for Mencap was to get the noble Lord appointed as secretary-general.1509"This section applies if a person"—Lord Renton
1510"(c) has no connection of any kind with R".(b) has no connection with the project",(a) is prepared to be consulted by R"—"nominate a person who—: My Lords, I am sure that the Minister has listened very carefully to what my noble friend Lord Renton said and will pay it due and proper attention. I agree, with respect—as I understand one says in legal circles—with what my noble friend has said.1510"(c) has no connection of any kind with R".(b) has no connection with the project",(a) is prepared to be consulted by R"—"nominate a person who—Lord Patten
: My Lords, as the noble Lord has mentioned me, I would say: "If only I had had the chance". If "or" were replaced by "and" in subsection (4), how would research into Alzheimer's disease be conducted? Does he also agree that his fears about eugenics and so on are dealt with in Section 31(5)(b)(ii) which prohibits research that is "unduly invasive or restrictive"?Lord Carter
: My Lords, it should be possible to conduct research, but I would always put the interests of patients first in the legal framework surrounding such research. That is why I would wish to see the research that is being carried out into Alzheimer's disease also being intended to provide knowledge for the causes and treatment for the care of persons affected by the same or a similar condition. The noble Lord and I probably take a slightly different view on that.Lord Patten
1506: My Lords, the noble Baroness will remember that she said that we spent a long time on this issue in Committee. She will also remember that the Joint Committee, which I chaired and of which she was a distinguished member, also spent a long time on this subject. Indeed, I am sure that the noble Baroness remembers that she proposed an amendment to the committee's report and she will also remember conversations that we had in which I explained to her exactly how to do so. The amendment was to the effect that people judged to be incapable of making, and unable to make, decisions for themselves should not be
1506Lord Carter
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness for giving way. In the spirit of trying to be helpful, perhaps a form of words saying "unknown" or "not known" to the person could be used.Lord Patten
: My Lords, surely, if one is not known, one is not known. Lengths of string do not come into the argument.Lord Patten
: My Lords, before the noble Baroness sits down, would she be so good as to tell us whether there is any hope, in Clause 32, of elimination of the expression "R", which replaces very few words, and, in earlier clauses, the expression "P"?Lord Renton
: My Lords, I was in no sense trying to blame my noble friend.Lord Renton
1440: My Lords, I welcome my noble friend's comments and her resistance to the questions from the
1440Lord Dubs
(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.): My Lords, I understand that no amendments have been set down for Committee and that no noble Lord has indicated a desire to move a manuscript amendment or to speak in Committee. Therefore, unless any noble Lord objects, I beg to move that the order of commitment be discharged.(Lord McIntosh of Haringey.)The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Culture, Media and Sport (Lord McIntosh of Haringey)
: My Lords, before my noble friend sits down, can I ask whether she is willing to add a sentence? I accept entirely what she did about the initial code. It would be helpful to know that there will be wide consultation on supplementary codes. I am sure there will be; I have no doubt in my mind that that will be the case. It would be unbelievable if it were not the case, but it would help to have that confirmed.Lord Christopher
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Greaves
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that fairly helpful Answer—perhaps a very helpful Answer. In considering advice that might be given to the OSCE and any other observers, will the Minister bear in mind the dramatic increases in the number of complaints and allegations about voting fraud, particularly but not only connected with postal voting, which have been made in the past few years?Lord Greaves
1525: My Lords, I warmly support particularly government Amendment No. 80, and all the associated
1525Lord Rix
: My Lords, I would like to clear up a point with the noble Lord, Lord Patten, and with my noble friend Lord Alton. Of course, I am aware of the eugenics movement and I am aware that 70,000 people were sterilised in Sweden. My noble friend Lord Alton failed to mention that, at the same time, 75,000 people were sterilised in North America. Is sterilisation seen as research? In my view it is not research: it is sterilisation for social reasons to make it easier for those caring for the woman—generally it is a woman; men are never sterilised—as she is not seen fit to bear babies. I would not consider that truthfully to be research; I would consider that to have been inflicted on those women to make life easier for their carers and the world at large in a social context.Lord Rix
: My Lords, I want to express my disquiet that the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, persists in describing people with a learning disability as "mentally handicapped". That is now a discarded description. I am also concerned at her assumption that all 1.5 million people in this country with a learning disability do not have the mental capacity to make decisions for themselves. That is untrue and I feel that it should be placed on the record.Lord Rix
1507: My Lords, perhaps I may follow the words of the noble Lord, Lord Carter, by illustrating two research projects in which I have been involved over the years and which would have been ruled out completely by Amendment No. 60. These were completely painless and non-invasive projects involving simple CAT scans and positron emission tomography scans of patients with Alzheimer's disease.1507Baroness Murphy
15401539: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness for her generous remarks about my
15401539Lord Kingsland
Amendment No. 106A not moved.: My Lords—Amendment No. 106A not moved.Lord Kingsland
15431542(7) The Board must prepare an annual report on its activities and that report must be included in the annual report of the Lord Chancellor to Parliament."(6) The Public Guardian must make monthly reports to the Board on matters which the Board thinks are relevant and must provide them with such other information as they may reasonably require.(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and(5) It is the duty of the Board to supervise the Public Guardian in—
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and
(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and(4) The Board must consist of at least two—
(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and
(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and(3) The Board is to consist of no less than nine members.(2) The Board is to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a non-executive board known as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision."THE BOARD OF PUBLIC GUARDIANSHIP SUPERVISIONAfter Clause 57, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 106B:
15431542(7) The Board must prepare an annual report on its activities and that report must be included in the annual report of the Lord Chancellor to Parliament."(6) The Public Guardian must make monthly reports to the Board on matters which the Board thinks are relevant and must provide them with such other information as they may reasonably require.(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and(5) It is the duty of the Board to supervise the Public Guardian in—
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and
(b) on any matter relating to or arising out of the exercise of those functions.(a) the exercise of his functions with regard to this Act; and(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and
(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and(4) The Board must consist of at least two—
(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and
(b) certified or chartered accountants.(a) registered medical practitioners; and(3) The Board is to consist of no less than nine members.(2) The Board is to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a non-executive board known as the Board of Public Guardianship Supervision."THE BOARD OF PUBLIC GUARDIANSHIP SUPERVISIONAfter Clause 57, insert the following new clause—Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, I am most grateful to the noble Baroness. In those circumstances, of course, I am very happy to beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Lord Kingsland
: My Lords, is there not a case for welcoming observers from the emerging democracies, such as Iraq, who have a lot to learn in Britain?Lord Campbell-Savours
1508: My Lords, I have added my name to Amendment No. 62, to which the noble Baroness, Lady Murphy, has just referred. I agree with her that the Government need to answer the points made by the noble Baroness, Lady Knight, in relation to that amendment.1508Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, in Committee, I too raised the issues and brought to noble Lords' attention the Joint Committee's recommendations, the biomedicine convention and conflicts of interest. The Government have gone a long way to addressing a number of those questions, and I am grateful to them for that. When the Minister introduced the amendment, she said that there were no significant discrepancies between our international obligations under the biomedicine convention and the requirements set out in the amendments. What differences exist? Is there something of any kind of significance of which we should be aware before we approve of what are very welcome amendments?Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, I agree with the noble Earl, Lord Howe. This is an extremely welcome amendment and one that is in very good faith. I am grateful to the Minister for incorporating it on the face of the Bill.Lord Alton of Liverpool
1487"unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect"—"subsection (6)(c) does not authorise the giving or refusing of consent to the carrying out or continuation of life-sustaining treatment, unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect".: My Lords, I strongly support Amendment No. 38, which the noble Earl, Lord Howe, has moved. He is right to see the matter as being of a piece with the debates that we have had about best interests and intention and purposes—all the debates that have flowed through our Committee and Report proceedings. He is absolutely right to draw a distinction between the right of veto and the right of consultation. The amendment is therefore extremely helpful.1487"unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect"—"subsection (6)(c) does not authorise the giving or refusing of consent to the carrying out or continuation of life-sustaining treatment, unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect".Lord Alton of Liverpool
: My Lords, are the Government reluctant to use control orders in Northern Ireland based on reasonable suspicion because they fear the stirring up in the Northern Irish communities of the sort of hornets' nest that we were talking about last week?Lord Thomas of Gresford
1435: My Lords, I declare an interest as the first Member of Parliament to gain a degree from the Open University, which I did in 1976. I am still the only Member of Parliament to do so. I
1435Lord Graham of Edmonton
: My Lords, further to the question of the noble Lord, Lord Campbell-Savours, will the Government consult the Commonwealth Secretariat about the possibility that it might put together an observer mission that would include some representatives from African countries?Lord Avebury
1491: My Lords, this has been a very good debate and I am grateful to all noble Lords who have spoken. The question that we should have in our minds is, surely: what is to be gained by having this power in the Bill and what is to be lost? To me, the potential
1491Earl Howe
148614851484Page 7, line 12, leave out from "treatment" to "and" in line 13.moved Amendment No. 38:
148614851484Page 7, line 12, leave out from "treatment" to "and" in line 13.Earl Howe
: My Lords, I confess that I have not spoken to honourable Members in another place about this particular issue, although what my noble friend says may well be correct.Earl Howe
: My Lords, with the leave of the House, perhaps I may answer that. It is certainly not my intention through the amendment to address advance decisions. It relates to lasting powers of attorney, where a person grants a lasting power of attorney to another individual over matters of life and death. It does not relate to advance decisions. The Bill states that, where the power is specifically provided for, the attorney may refuse consent to life-sustaining treatment. My amendment would remove that provision, so that attorneys did not have that power.Earl Howe
1492: My Lords, I am very grateful to the Minister and I will certainly reflect on that point.1492Earl Howe
: My Lords, it is very difficult not to be persuaded by the arguments we have heard, not simply that this amendment is a safeguard, which it certainly is, but that it is also a matter of propriety. I hope that the noble Baroness will be sympathetic.Earl Howe
: My Lords, this is an extremely important and welcome amendment and I thank the Government for bringing it forward.Earl Howe
: My Lords, I too thank the Minister very much for the amendments, which address the concerns that we raised in Committee.Earl Howe
1520: My Lords, I welcome all the amendments in this group, but particularly Amendments Nos. 66, 97
1520Earl Howe
"Detention of someone who has committed no offence is a difficult and serious issue requiring the closest scrutiny … we do not consider it appropriate for subordinate legislation alone to determine the whole range of issues covered by the proposed clause … It is our view that as far as the appropriateness of the delegation of power is concerned, the new clause 'Protective care for certain persons lacking mental capacity' is not an appropriate delegation".Bournewood: My Lords, there is no doubt that the amendments place the House in considerable difficulty. The Government are to be warmly commended for having responded to the concerns raised by many noble Lords on Second Reading and in Committee about the absence in the Bill of any provisions designed to address the issues raised in the "Detention of someone who has committed no offence is a difficult and serious issue requiring the closest scrutiny … we do not consider it appropriate for subordinate legislation alone to determine the whole range of issues covered by the proposed clause … It is our view that as far as the appropriateness of the delegation of power is concerned, the new clause 'Protective care for certain persons lacking mental capacity' is not an appropriate delegation".BournewoodEarl Howe
: My Lords, I hope that the House will allow me to support the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, in introducing the amendments. I, too, regard them as a very neat way forward. I hope that these amendments or some like them will commend themselves to the Government.Earl Howe
: My Lords, I very much endorse everything that my noble friend said. The amendment is warmly to be welcomed. However, I want to bring to the Minister's attention a concern raised with me by members of the Mental Incapacity Consultative Forum. It is that the proposed amendment could give a local authority of an autocratic disposition a licence to displace family advocates whom it considered difficult. I have been asked to draw her attention to such a situation—I am sure that it is not intended, if it is an effect of the amendment—and to ask her what safeguards will be put in place to prevent misuse of local discretion and powers of the kind to which I have referred.Earl Howe
: My Lords, I have to notify the House, in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967, that the Queen has signified her Royal Assent to the following Act:The Chairman of Committees (Lord Brabazon of Tara)
: My Lords, there have been continuous improvements made at Styal prison and young offender institution since Sarah Campbell's tragic death on 18 January 2003. The inquest into Sarah's death was heard by the coroner for Cheshire, Nicholas Rheinberg, and was concluded on 24 January this year. After the inquest, Mr Rheinberg wrote under coroners' rule 43 and the Minister for Correctional Services, Paul Goggins, will be replying.The Minister of State, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (Lord Rooker)
1432: My Lords, we have positive responses to many of the points that the noble Baroness has covered. Pilots—one for men and one for women—are under way on intermittent sentences, which follows learning from the Dutch practice. The old self-harm at-risk form and programme have been modified as a
1432Lord Rooker
: My Lords, the noble Baroness has put her finger on some key aspects. The reality is that some 70 per cent of women who enter custody need detoxification. That may not be the reason they are in custody, but it is a key factor. Purely coincidentally, today the prisons Minister, Paul Goggins, is opening the first-night centre at Styal prison. That is a key factor.Lord Rooker
1433: My Lords, yes, there have been some. I am not in any way negating what happens in Holloway, but some quite extravagant claims were made that half a dozen people were being cut down every night. The evidence did not back that up. Nevertheless, work is going on in Holloway to create safe cells. Of course, such cells are automatically designed in to new prisons, but they are not in older
1433Lord Rooker
: My Lords, work is taking place. The self-inflicted death rate per thousand women is three times the rate of men, for which there have to be reasons. First, the distance that women have to travel to prison is 60 miles which, on average, is about 10 miles further than men. Virtually 70 per cent of women entering prison, as I have said, require detoxification of some kind of opiates, alcohol and other substances, which is a serious issue.Lord Rooker
: My Lords, I wish to say how much I value these government amendments. I am very pleased with them. I know that the research community at large is also very pleased with them. This is, indeed, a listening government. I am delighted to welcome these amendments.Lord Turnberg
: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister for putting in the amendments, which answer all the points raised in our earlier debate. She has explained clearly why they were so important to introduce. I certainly do not need to make the case again and am delighted that they are there.Lord Turnberg
"have the potential to benefit P","without imposing on P a burden that is disproportionate to the potential benefit to P","without imposing on P a burden that is disproportionate to the potential benefit"."has no connection with the project","has no connection of any kind with R",1511: My Lords, I am not sure how we were diverted into eugenics and sterilisation. For all the reasons mentioned by the noble Lord, Lord Rix, I do not believe that is entirely relevant to these two amendments.
"have the potential to benefit P","without imposing on P a burden that is disproportionate to the potential benefit to P","without imposing on P a burden that is disproportionate to the potential benefit"."has no connection with the project","has no connection of any kind with R",1511Lord Turnberg
Hansard: My Lords, I briefly thank the Minister for the amendment and for her introduction of it. I assume that the intention to place family carers at the heart of decision-making would apply also to the amendments that we have just discussed, particularly Amendments Nos. 68 and 72. That said, we shall as usual read her words in HansardLord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, with reference to the comments of the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, might it be worth thinking of a mechanism whereby, if an authority or PCT wished to impose an IMCA on a good family with obviously good family care and there was a dispute about that, could that go to the Court of Protection for adjudication? I think that the noble Baroness said that this would happen, anyway.Lord Pearson of Rannoch
: My Lords, again, I am grateful for the speed with which the regulations have been dealt with. The noble Lord, Lord Henley, asked why we were changing the path of appeal. The Department for Constitutional Affairs is working to modernise the UK tribunals system. Modern policy on tribunals holds that there should be a second-tier tribunal to hear appeals on points of law before a matter arises in the courts. The commissioners will be introduced as the second-tier appellate tribunal. We believe that having two levels of tribunal provides a quicker, more user-friendly and more cost-effective service to the parties involved, in comparison with the courts.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I am grateful for the speed with which we have dealt with the order. I absolutely take on board the point of the noble Lord, Lord Goodhart, about the affirmative procedure.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.10th Report from the Joint CommitteeTransforming Public Services: Complaints, Redress and Tribunals.148210th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft regulations laid before the House on 23 February be approved [Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.10th Report from the Joint CommitteeTransforming Public Services: Complaints, Redress and Tribunals.148210th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Evans of Temple Guiting
: My Lords, I am grateful for the welcome the order has received. There were a few questions from the noble Lords, Lord Henley and Lord Goodhart, with which I shall deal. The noble Lords might be interested in the criteria that we apply to territories when we engage in discussion with them. The speaking note is a long one. I shall not try and précis it because that will not do it justice, but I will make sure that both noble Lords have a copy of it because it is very interesting.Lord Evans of Temple Guiting
Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.10th Report from the Joint Committed"justices' chief executive for any petty sessions area",148010th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 9 February be approved [Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.10th Report from the Joint Committed"justices' chief executive for any petty sessions area",148010th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Evans of Temple Guiting
Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.14777th Report from the Joint Committeerose to move, That the draft order laid before the House on 20 January be approved [Lord Evans of Temple Guiting.14777th Report from the Joint CommitteeLord Evans of Temple Guiting
1478: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for that very full and helpful explanation of exactly what is
1478Lord Henley
1481: My Lords, I am grateful to the Minister on two counts. First, I am grateful for his assurance that there is no new policy in the order and that it is simply a question of semantics, changing the wording used in various Acts as a result of the Courts Act 2003. The whole House will be grateful for the fact that he thought it necessary to give us simply one example of the changes, rather than detailing all 113 paragraphs of the order. As I said, the order seems to be merely a question of semantics. As a result, we see the disappearance of the words "petty sessions" from a large number of places. As a publisher, 1 suspect that the noble Lord will find the replacement for many words—"chief executive", for example, will be replaced with "designated officer"—somewhat more ugly, but no doubt he was not party to the precise words chosen.1481Lord Henley
1483: My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for that explanation. As he says, these are merely
1483Lord Henley
: My Lords, will the noble Earl or the Minister enlighten me about what otherwise I see to be the implication of the amendment; that is, that the right to refuse burdensome treatment by means of an advance decision would not be available to people who lacked capacity under this clause? If I could be enlightened about that, I would know what I thought about what was being proposed. The references of the noble Lord, Lord Alton, to a case of euthanasia do not, with great respect, seem to be relevant at all to what the Bill intends.The Lord Bishop of Worcester
: My Lords, from the Bishops' Benches I express gratitude on behalf of the Church of England for the discussions that the Minister has had. This amendment seems to me eminently sensible.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords, I do not think that the noble Lord, Lord Patten, answered the question posed by the noble Lord, Lord Carter, about Alzheimer's, which is a crucial example. It may be that it is absolutely vital to conduct research on Alzheimer's disease with a body of Alzheimer's patients, but that there would be no immediate benefit for the Alzheimer's sufferer who is taking part in that research.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords, those who originally proposed the amendments and the Government are both to be commended, because many people who have had anxieties about this part of the Bill will be reassured by the resounding clarity of the statement that the interests of the person must be assumed to outweigh those of science and society. That will send a real signal of reassurance to many people.The Lord Bishop of Oxford
: My Lords, every Member of your Lordships' House and every political party in this country demand the best integrity in all of our elections. Noble Lords have spoken about widely held views that there is corruption or a lack of integrity in elections. Is my noble friend aware that that itself casts doubt on the election process? Just before an election, it sounds as though people are crying foul before they have even heard the result.Lord Hughes of Woodside
: My Lords, does the Minister agree that there is no room for complacency, and that in a high profile prison like Holloway, suicide attempts occur almost nightly?Viscount Bridgeman
asked Her Majesty's Government:Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, I thank the Lord President for that response, which I find encouraging, in as much as the Secretary of State is giving the matter consideration. However, in Northern Ireland, we have much more than reasonable suspicion that people, both loyalist and republican, are involved with terrorist gangs that carry out all forms of criminality, including murder. The Justice Minister in the Irish Republic has even named two Members of the other place as serving members of the IRA army council. Do Her Majesty's Government have any intention of using control orders against those who, according to the police and security forces. pose a terrorist threat in Northern Ireland? In the light of last week's legislation, if not, why not?Lord Glentoran
: My Lords, will the Minister clarify the position? Her noble friend has congratulated her on resisting the suggestion, but I thought that I heard her say that the Secretary of State was considering those matters. Is it not the case that, whether in Great Britain or Northern Ireland, obviously the Government would prefer a proper prosecution to take place? But is she saying that in cases where it is not possible, depending on the gravity of the situation, the Secretary of State is considering the possible use of such orders?Lord King of Bridgwater
: My Lords, without accusing the Minister of complacency, is there not a danger that, in the desire to turn around the decline in turnout in our elections in recent years, we may put at risk the integrity of our system? Are there plans properly to evaluate the new voting system? An increase based just on making voting ever easier does not increase the quality of our democracy. We need democrats to make democracy work and we need better education, especially of the young, in the civic responsibility in a society such as ours to exercise their vote.Lord McNally
: My Lords, will the Lord President take this opportunity to dispel a growing feeling that the pursuit of alleged terrorists in Northern Ireland is less forceful than it is in England and Wales? Furthermore, will she speculate in an informed way about when we may expect some arrests following the McCartney murder and the Northern Bank robbery?Lord Smith of Clifton
: My Lords, in response to the supplementary question from the noble Lord, Lord Greaves, was not the Minister a trifle complacent about the widespread concern in the north west about electoral fraud and malpractice? It is one thing simply to talk about where convictions have been obtained, it is another completely to disregard the widely held view and concern of those involved in the political process that something has been going seriously awry for some time.Lord Inglewood
: My Lords, I have not checked through all the changes to see whether they are genuinely consequential, but they certainly appear so and I am happy to accept the Minister's word for it. Although the changes are consequential, the order upholds the principle that any amendment, even consequential, by secondary legislation of primary legislation should use the affirmative procedure. The Select Committee on Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform has been pressing for that for some years. That is plainly right, even if it means that we deal with something that is of no general significance. Therefore, I am glad to welcome the order.Lord Goodhart
1479: My Lords, we fully supported the legislation under which the order is made. We are very happy to support this legislation.1479Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, in the absence of my noble friend Lady Barker, I rise to confirm our support for this amendment. I entirely agree with the noble Baroness, Lady Howarth, that of course most of the people involved in the caring profession as paid carers act totally honourably and properly, but I think that people in that category would not, as she said, think it appropriate to take office as an attorney. There is undoubtedly here a risk of abuse from people who abuse the considerable powers they have as attorneys. It would be undoubtedly right, and a necessary safeguard, to ensure that paid carers are not eligible to act as attorneys under a lasting power of attorney for the people for whom they care.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, it has fallen to me to speak from these Benches. I am sorry that my noble friend Lady Barker has been called to an important engagement elsewhere and has left me to hold the fort on her behalf.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, we accept that this is a reasonable step and have no objection to the terms of the regulations.Lord Goodhart
"A higher level of parliamentary scrutiny is not considered appropriate, given that the draft code must meet the requirements of consultation set out in Clause 40(1)"."a code or codes of practice for the guidance of persons or with respect to matters set out in Clause 40(1). Clause 41 sets out the procedure for issuing and revising any codes of practice. The Lord Chancellor will have to consult with the National Assembly for Wales and other appropriate persons before preparing or revising a code"."Clause 40 requires the Lord Chancellor to prepare and issue"—1532"The Lord Chancellor may not issue a code unless … a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and … the 40 day period has elapsed without either House resolving not to approve the draft"."Before preparing or revising a code, the Lord Chancellor must consult … the National Assembly for Wales, and … such other persons as he considers appropriate"."The Lord Chancellor must prepare and issue one or more codes of practice".(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and
(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and"( ) The Lord Chancellor may not issue a code prepared under section 40 unless—
(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and
(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, andPage 24, line 23, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 101:
"A higher level of parliamentary scrutiny is not considered appropriate, given that the draft code must meet the requirements of consultation set out in Clause 40(1)"."a code or codes of practice for the guidance of persons or with respect to matters set out in Clause 40(1). Clause 41 sets out the procedure for issuing and revising any codes of practice. The Lord Chancellor will have to consult with the National Assembly for Wales and other appropriate persons before preparing or revising a code"."Clause 40 requires the Lord Chancellor to prepare and issue"—1532"The Lord Chancellor may not issue a code unless … a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and … the 40 day period has elapsed without either House resolving not to approve the draft"."Before preparing or revising a code, the Lord Chancellor must consult … the National Assembly for Wales, and … such other persons as he considers appropriate"."The Lord Chancellor must prepare and issue one or more codes of practice".(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and
(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and"( ) The Lord Chancellor may not issue a code prepared under section 40 unless—
(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, and
(b) has been approved by a resolution of each House."(a) a draft of the code has been laid by him before both Houses of Parliament, andPage 24, line 23, at end insert—Lord Goodhart
Functions of the Public GuardianAmendment No. 102 not moved.: My Lords, I am sorry that the Minister feels unable to be helpful on this matter. I find her arguments not particularly convincing. Good as the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee is, it is not infallible. This is one occasion when it appears to have made a mistake.Functions of the Public GuardianAmendment No. 102 not moved.Lord Goodhart
: My Lords, is the Minister aware that there is a major international dimension to this? The Russian Government are complaining about observers from the West always going to observe elections in eastern Europe and not having proper mutuality. Is it not therefore very much in our interest to ensure that we encourage observers from other countries to come here?Lord Wallace of Saltaire
: My Lords—Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: My Lords, the record of what we say here is very important. Does the noble Lord not accept—perhaps he was not in his place when I said it— that I have said at least once if not twice that I agreed with the Bland decision? He is wrong in what he has just said.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
1446"She must have died thirsty … she must have been dreaming of cups of tea, of rivers of water. They should not have taken the water away from her"."literally begged [the doctors] with my hands pressed in supplication. I don't know why these doctors did what they did. In the absence of any plausible explanation, I can only conclude that they considered my mother an expendable nuisance"."My mother was not seriously ill when she walked into hospital. In fact she was a relatively healthy woman with a relatively common problem. Six days later she was on her deathbed".14451444déjà vu: My Lords, I am very happy to support this amendment put down by the noble Baroness, for whom all of us, already, have a great admiration. I confess that I am feeling a sense of 1446"She must have died thirsty … she must have been dreaming of cups of tea, of rivers of water. They should not have taken the water away from her"."literally begged [the doctors] with my hands pressed in supplication. I don't know why these doctors did what they did. In the absence of any plausible explanation, I can only conclude that they considered my mother an expendable nuisance"."My mother was not seriously ill when she walked into hospital. In fact she was a relatively healthy woman with a relatively common problem. Six days later she was on her deathbed".14451444déjà vuBaroness Knight of Collingtree
1452: My Lords. the noble Baroness has spoken only about artificially conveyed food and liquid, but the amendment does not refer merely to that. It refers to simple feeding and the fact that, so often. food is too far away, yet none of that has
1452Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Baroness and I shall be brief. Will she answer two questions? She mentioned clearly that the nearest and dearest have a right to state their opinion. Does that opinion override and take priority over the decision that might have been made by any of the other consultees? As the noble Lord, Lord Patten, said, it seems that the Bill is incompatible with Article 2 of the human rights convention which states that everyone's right to life shall be protected by law. Is that the case? Is the noble Baroness engaged in any consultation about that?Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: My Lords, I assure the noble Lord that that has in no way ever been stated or believed by me. Undoubtedly we are dealing with a situation involving some people who are unable to make judgments for themselves. I have never suggested for a moment that all people with a mental handicap have no possibility of making any decision for themselves.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
Consulting carers etc.1517: My Lords, that is a comfort. But, obviously, I have deeply upset the noble Lord, Lord Rix, for which I am sorry. I do not try to upset anyone. I am just trying to give—as I understand Ministers want—as much protection as possible to people who may be used, under those three clauses, for research.
Consulting carers etc.1517Baroness Knight of Collingtree
15051504Page 18, line 3, leave out "or" and insert "and"moved Amendment No. 60:
15051504Page 18, line 3, leave out "or" and insert "and"Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: My Lords, it is obviously a matter for great regret that every amendment I put forward is causing huge trouble and would cause even worse if it was in the Bill. Because of what has been said, I stress that I am in no way against research. I want it to go on and to ensure that it does go on.Baroness Knight of Collingtree
: My Lords, before the noble Lord sits down, I wonder whether he is aware that in, for example. the United States, one can legally appoint another person to take these decisions on their behalf if their mental or even their physical condition is such that they are unable to make their views known.Baroness Oppenheim-Barnes
: My Lords, I shall intervene briefly following the excellent case made by my noble friend Lady Knight and others. I have just one question for the Minister. If the Bill already covers these points, and these things cannot possibly happen, is there any reason why a relative or close friend, visiting a patient who is unable to communicate in any way, can be prevented from demanding, on behalf of their close relative, that he should be given nutrition and hydration?Baroness Oppenheim-Barnes
: My Lords, in my Answer, I specifically was not referring to observers coming to learn from us. Indeed, I said that observers should determine where they could best use their skills. I accept that it is important that observers come to see how we demonstrate our democracy through the ballot box, but also to support us in ensuring that at all times there is integrity in the system.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I cannot comment on the Russian Government, but it is very important that we offer the opportunity to discuss with colleagues in emerging and fully fledged democracies the ways in which we exercise our democracy. That is a healthy debate and an important opportunity that elections provide and I am sure that that will be much welcomed.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I agree with my noble friend that we must take great care in what we say. We must be sure that where allegations are made, they are investigated; and that where things are discovered that need to be put right, they are put right; but we should be very cautious of suggesting that things are badly wrong when they are clearly not.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"( ) But the donee does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention."Page 6, line 43, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 37:
"( ) But the donee does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention."Page 6, line 43, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
14901489: My Lords, this is an important debate. I say immediately to the noble Earl, Lord Howe, that of course I am always committed to reflect on everything that we discuss in your Lordships' House, because it is an important part of ensuring that the Bill goes back to another place in the best possible order. I am very clear about this part of the Bill, and I believe that it would be helpful if I explained precisely what the Bill does and what the position is, so that noble Lords can then reflect on those matters as well, and we can continue the very helpful dialogue that we have had.
14901489Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I am sorry to interrupt the noble Earl, but what he is saying made me think immediately of a case that is very different but which is quite relevant—the case of Baby Wyatt. In that case, the doctors wished to withdraw treatment for very profound and, I am sure, good clinical reasons, and the family said that they did not want that. You could relate that to the issue of lasting power of attorney.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, I think that is because those words say that you must expressly state your wishes within the lasting power of attorney. If you wish somebody to have power over life-sustaining treatment in the lasting power of attorney, you have to say so absolutely.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(c) jointly in respect of some matters and jointly and severally in respect of others"Page 11, line 22, at end insert", ormoved Amendment No. 45:
(c) jointly in respect of some matters and jointly and severally in respect of others"Page 11, line 22, at end insert", orBaroness Ashton of Upholland
"A deputy may not refuse consent to the carrying out or continuation of life-sustaining treatment in relation to P".Page 12, line 22, leave out from "P" to end of line 25.moved Amendment No. 46:
"A deputy may not refuse consent to the carrying out or continuation of life-sustaining treatment in relation to P".Page 12, line 22, leave out from "P" to end of line 25.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 8, line 24, after first "power" insert "in respect of any matter"Page 8, line 16, after "severally" insert "in respect of any matter"moved Amendments Nos. 40 and 41:
Page 8, line 24, after first "power" insert "in respect of any matter"Page 8, line 16, after "severally" insert "in respect of any matter"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 10, line 4, leave out from "powers" to end and insert "or impose on him such duties, as it thinks necessary or expedient for giving effect to, or otherwise in connection with,"Page 9, line 39, leave out "section" and insert "sections 1 (the principles) and"moved Amendments Nos. 42 and 43:
Page 10, line 4, leave out from "powers" to end and insert "or impose on him such duties, as it thinks necessary or expedient for giving effect to, or otherwise in connection with,"Page 9, line 39, leave out "section" and insert "sections 1 (the principles) and"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
14971496(4) "The 1986 Measure" means the Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No.3)."(3) The 1986 Measure applies to R as it applies to an individual appointed by the registered patron of the benefice under section 8(1)(b) or (3) of that Measure to discharge his functions as patron.(2) R must be an individual capable of appointment under section 8(1)(b) of the 1986 Measure (which provides for a individual able to make a declaration of communicant status, a clerk in Holy Orders, etc. to be appointed to discharge a registered patron's functions)."10 (1) Any functions which P has as patron of a benefice may be discharged only by a person ("R") appointed by the court.Page 44, line 27, leave out paragraph 10 and insert—moved Amendment No. 44:
14971496(4) "The 1986 Measure" means the Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No.3)."(3) The 1986 Measure applies to R as it applies to an individual appointed by the registered patron of the benefice under section 8(1)(b) or (3) of that Measure to discharge his functions as patron.(2) R must be an individual capable of appointment under section 8(1)(b) of the 1986 Measure (which provides for a individual able to make a declaration of communicant status, a clerk in Holy Orders, etc. to be appointed to discharge a registered patron's functions)."10 (1) Any functions which P has as patron of a benefice may be discharged only by a person ("R") appointed by the court.Page 44, line 27, leave out paragraph 10 and insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"( ) But a deputy does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention (whether or not the deputy is a public authority)."Page 12, line 43, at end insert—1498Page 12, line 27, leave out "section" and insert "sections 1 (the principles) and"moved Amendments Nos. 47 and 48:
"( ) But a deputy does more than merely restrain P if he deprives P of his liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention (whether or not the deputy is a public authority)."Page 12, line 43, at end insert—1498Page 12, line 27, leave out "section" and insert "sections 1 (the principles) and"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 13, line 17, after "whether" insert "one or more of"moved Amendment No. 50:
Page 13, line 17, after "whether" insert "one or more of"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 13, line 42, at end insert "or an instrument purporting to create one"moved Amendment No. 54:
Page 13, line 42, at end insert "or an instrument purporting to create one"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1495: My Lords, I completely understand the concerns that lie behind the amendment which the noble Baroness moved. Since Committee, we have had productive discussions with the Commission for Social Care Inspection, as I indicated I would. I do not want to rule out the people whom we are discussing completely because we know of a handful of exceptions where the member of staff in question is also related to the person lacking capacity. Therefore, that member of staff was the most appropriate person in these circumstances for a variety of reasons. Those people comprise a very tiny number but they exist. The difficulty with the amendment is that you might rule out such people completely. However, I agree absolutely that as a general rule such appointments should not be made. The code of practice will make that clear.1495Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"seek advice from an independent consultee as to P's best interests"Page 19, line 41, leave out from ""independent" to end of line 42 and insert "mental capacity advocates") to be available to represent and support persons to whom acts or decisions proposed under sections 35, 36 and 37 relate"moved Amendment No. 68:
"seek advice from an independent consultee as to P's best interests"Page 19, line 41, leave out from ""independent" to end of line 42 and insert "mental capacity advocates") to be available to represent and support persons to whom acts or decisions proposed under sections 35, 36 and 37 relate"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Improving the Life Chances of Disabled People,1526Page 20, line 1, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert "as to the appointment of independent mental capacity advocates"moved Amendment No. 69:
Improving the Life Chances of Disabled People,1526Page 20, line 1, leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert "as to the appointment of independent mental capacity advocates"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 20, line 33, leave out subsection (8).Page 20, line 31, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates"Page 20, line 29, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates"Page 20, line 28, after first "section" insert ", section (Functions of independent mental capacity advocates)"Page 20, line 27, leave out "consultee's" and insert "mental capacity advocate's"Page 20, line 18, leave out from "person" to", and" in line 19 and insert "whom he has been instructed to represent"Page 20, line 17, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"Page 20, line 10, leave out from "that" to "by" in line 11 and insert "a person to whom a proposed act or decision relates should, so far as practicable, be represented and supported"Page 20, line 7, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"Page 20, line 5, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"moved Amendments Nos. 70 to 79:
Page 20, line 33, leave out subsection (8).Page 20, line 31, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates"Page 20, line 29, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates"Page 20, line 28, after first "section" insert ", section (Functions of independent mental capacity advocates)"Page 20, line 27, leave out "consultee's" and insert "mental capacity advocate's"Page 20, line 18, leave out from "person" to", and" in line 19 and insert "whom he has been instructed to represent"Page 20, line 17, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"Page 20, line 10, leave out from "that" to "by" in line 11 and insert "a person to whom a proposed act or decision relates should, so far as practicable, be represented and supported"Page 20, line 7, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"Page 20, line 5, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Duty to seek advice in connection with serious medical treatment1527(3) The regulations may also make provision as to circumstances in which the advocate may challenge, or provide assistance for the purpose of challenging, any relevant decision."(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;
(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;(2) The regulations may, in particular, make provision requiring an advocate to take such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of—
(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;
(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;(1) The appropriate authority may make regulations as to the functions of independent mental capacity advocates."FUNCTIONS OF INDEPENDENT MENTAL CAPACITY ADVOCATESAfter Clause 34, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 80:
Duty to seek advice in connection with serious medical treatment1527(3) The regulations may also make provision as to circumstances in which the advocate may challenge, or provide assistance for the purpose of challenging, any relevant decision."(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;
(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;(2) The regulations may, in particular, make provision requiring an advocate to take such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of—
(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;
(e) obtaining a further medical opinion where treatment is proposed and the advocate thinks that one should be obtained.(d) ascertaining what alternative courses of action are available in relation to P;(c) ascertaining what P's wishes and feelings would be likely to be, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence P, if he had capacity;(b) obtaining and evaluating relevant information;(a) providing support to the person whom he has been instructed to represent ("P") so that P may participate as fully as possible in any relevant decision;(1) The appropriate authority may make regulations as to the functions of independent mental capacity advocates."FUNCTIONS OF INDEPENDENT MENTAL CAPACITY ADVOCATESAfter Clause 34, insert the following new clause—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Duty of NHS body to seek advice before arranging accommodation"(5) The NHS body must, in providing or securing the provision of treatment for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 21, line 7, leave out subsection (5) and insert—Page 21, line 1, leave out from "must" to end of line 3 and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 20, line 41, leave out "about" and insert "in determining what would be in"moved Amendments Nos. 81 to 83:
Duty of NHS body to seek advice before arranging accommodation"(5) The NHS body must, in providing or securing the provision of treatment for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 21, line 7, leave out subsection (5) and insert—Page 21, line 1, leave out from "must" to end of line 3 and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 20, line 41, leave out "about" and insert "in determining what would be in"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Duty of local authority to seek advice before arranging accommodation"(5) The NHS body must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 21, line 43, leave out subsection (5) and insert—
"(5) The NHS body must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 21, line 42, leave out "seek advice from an independent consultee" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P."Page 21, line 34, leave out "seek advice from an independent consultee" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 21, line 27, leave out from "must" to "unless" in line 29 and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 21, line 24, leave out "about" and insert "in determining what would be in"moved Amendments Nos. 84 to 88:
Duty of local authority to seek advice before arranging accommodation"(5) The NHS body must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 21, line 43, leave out subsection (5) and insert—
"(5) The NHS body must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 21, line 42, leave out "seek advice from an independent consultee" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P."Page 21, line 34, leave out "seek advice from an independent consultee" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 21, line 27, leave out from "must" to "unless" in line 29 and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 21, line 24, leave out "about" and insert "in determining what would be in"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Exceptions"(6) The local authority must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 23, line 1, leave out subsection (6) and insert—
"(6) The local authority must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 22, line 45, leave out "seek advice from an independent consultee" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 22, line 38, leave out from "not" to "before" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 22, line 31, leave out from "must" to "unless" in line 33 and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 22, line 22, leave out "about" and insert "in determining what would be in"moved Amendments Nos. 89 to 93:
Exceptions"(6) The local authority must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 23, line 1, leave out subsection (6) and insert—
"(6) The local authority must, in deciding what arrangements to make for P, take into account any information given, or submissions made, by the independent mental capacity advocate."Page 22, line 45, leave out "seek advice from an independent consultee" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 22, line 38, leave out from "not" to "before" and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 22, line 31, leave out from "must" to "unless" in line 33 and insert "instruct an independent mental capacity advocate to represent P"Page 22, line 22, leave out "about" and insert "in determining what would be in"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Power to adjust role of independent consultee service1528Page 23, line 5, leave out "36(3) and 37(4)" and insert "36(3) and (4) and 37(4) and (5)"moved Amendment No. 94:
Power to adjust role of independent consultee service1528Page 23, line 5, leave out "36(3) and 37(4)" and insert "36(3) and (4) and 37(4) and (5)"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 23, line 14, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates"moved Amendment No. 95:
Page 23, line 14, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1529"anyone engaged in caring for the person","circumstances … in which advice must be sought from an independent consultee".Page 23, line 19, leave out from "which" to", and" in line 21 and insert "an independent mental capacity advocate must, or circumstances in which one may, be instructed by a person of a prescribed description to represent a person who lacks capacity"moved Amendment No. 96:
1529"anyone engaged in caring for the person","circumstances … in which advice must be sought from an independent consultee".Page 23, line 19, leave out from "which" to", and" in line 21 and insert "an independent mental capacity advocate must, or circumstances in which one may, be instructed by a person of a prescribed description to represent a person who lacks capacity"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, of course, I am happy to confirm that. As the codes come into being, I am sure that they will need amendment from time to time. That is right and proper. They will be living documents. Of course we would ensure that there was consultation.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1534modus operandi1533: My Lords, my speaking note states that we do not disagree with the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee. We are going to come to a much bigger issue on which we have been discussing matters with that committee. The
1534modus operandi1533Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Codes of practice1531: My Lords, certainly in a social care context it could end up at the Court of Protection, but I was trying to say that there are very well-established dispute resolution procedures that one would go through, because this would be part of that. However, I shall take the noble Lord's comments back to the Department of Health, where this policy belongs, and obtain a letter of clarification for the noble Lord, which might help. They are meant to use those procedures properly and formally in this context.Codes of practice1531Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Codes of practice: procedurePage 24, line 6, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate""(ba) as a person carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (see sections 30 to 33),"Page 24, line 5, at end insert—
"(ba) as a person carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (see sections 30 to 33),"Page 23, line 33, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates""(da) for the guidance of persons carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (and otherwise with respect to the provisions of sections 30 to 33)."Page 23, line 32, at end insert—
"(da) for the guidance of persons carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (and otherwise with respect to the provisions of sections 30 to 33)."moved Amendments Nos. 97 to 100:
Codes of practice: procedurePage 24, line 6, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate""(ba) as a person carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (see sections 30 to 33),"Page 24, line 5, at end insert—
"(ba) as a person carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (see sections 30 to 33),"Page 23, line 33, leave out "consultees" and insert "mental capacity advocates""(da) for the guidance of persons carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (and otherwise with respect to the provisions of sections 30 to 33)."Page 23, line 32, at end insert—
"(da) for the guidance of persons carrying out research as part of a research project approved for the purposes of this Act (and otherwise with respect to the provisions of sections 30 to 33)."Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1538"more appropriate for them to continue to be administered by the DWP".1537: My Lords, I commend the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, for continuing to
1538"more appropriate for them to continue to be administered by the DWP".1537Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, the noble Baroness, Lady Barker, is absolutely right. It is about extending the services to which we are already committed. The phraseology was perhaps less elegant than it might have been. It is right to look at that and do that in consultation, because, as the noble Baroness knows, within the 37 organisations referred to by the noble Lord, Lord Rix, there are slightly differing views. We must ensure that we use the service and the £6.5 million that we have available in the best way we possibly can.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendments Nos. 105 to 105C not moved.: My Lords, I am grateful to the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, for his comments. He was absolutely right in everything that he said with reference to Amendment No. 105C and in his analysis of the role of the Public Guardian and the future role of the Office of the Public Guardian. 1 am grateful to him also for withdrawing his proposed new clause in favour of mine.Amendments Nos. 105 to 105C not moved.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(2) The Lord Chancellor must, within one month of receiving the report, lay a copy of it before Parliament."(1) The Public Guardian must make an annual report to the Lord Chancellor about the discharge of his functions.
(2) The Lord Chancellor must, within one month of receiving the report, lay a copy of it before Parliament."(1) The Public Guardian must make an annual report to the Lord Chancellor about the discharge of his functions."ANNUAL REPORTAfter Clause 56, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 106:
(2) The Lord Chancellor must, within one month of receiving the report, lay a copy of it before Parliament."(1) The Public Guardian must make an annual report to the Lord Chancellor about the discharge of his functions.
(2) The Lord Chancellor must, within one month of receiving the report, lay a copy of it before Parliament."(1) The Public Guardian must make an annual report to the Lord Chancellor about the discharge of his functions."ANNUAL REPORTAfter Clause 56, insert the following new clause—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
BournewoodBournewood(6) "Detention" includes any deprivation of liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention."(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;
(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;(5) "Appropriate authority" means—
(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;
(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);
(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);(4) The regulations may also—
(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);
(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;
(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;(3) The regulations may, in particular, include provision—
(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;
(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;(2) A person who is detained in accordance with the regulations is, for the purposes of this section, in protective care.(1) The appropriate authority may make regulations authorising the detention, in prescribed circumstances, of prescribed descriptions of persons who lack capacity, for the purpose of providing them with treatment or care which is determined, in accordance with the regulations, to be in their best interests."PROTECTIVE CARE FOR CERTAIN PERSONS LACKING MENTAL CAPACITYAfter Clause 59, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 107:
BournewoodBournewood(6) "Detention" includes any deprivation of liberty within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Human Rights Convention."(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;
(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;(5) "Appropriate authority" means—
(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;
(b) in any other case, the Secretary of State.(a) in relation to the provision of protective care in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales;(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);
(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);(4) The regulations may also—
(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);
(b) provide for any provision of this Act not to apply for the purposes of the regulations or to apply with prescribed modifications.1545(a) include provision similar to that made by section 139 of the Mental Health Act (protection for acts done in pursuance of that Act);(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;
(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;(3) The regulations may, in particular, include provision—
(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;
(i) as to the powers and functions of a court (or tribunal) to which a reference or appeal is made.(h) as to rights of persons in protective care to appeal to such court (or tribunal) as may be prescribed;(g) as to the persons by whom powers conferred by the regulations may be exercised;(f) as to the circumstances in which a person is to be discharged from protective care;(e) as to the circumstances in which a person's protective care must, and those in which it may, be referred, to a prescribed court (or tribunal) for a decision as to whether it should continue;(d) for a person's protective care to be reviewed at prescribed intervals or in prescribed circumstances;(c) as to safeguards to be provided for, or in relation to, persons in protective care;(b) requiring prescribed conditions to be complied with in relation to the provision of protective care;(a) as to the premises in which protective care may be provided;(2) A person who is detained in accordance with the regulations is, for the purposes of this section, in protective care.(1) The appropriate authority may make regulations authorising the detention, in prescribed circumstances, of prescribed descriptions of persons who lack capacity, for the purpose of providing them with treatment or care which is determined, in accordance with the regulations, to be in their best interests."PROTECTIVE CARE FOR CERTAIN PERSONS LACKING MENTAL CAPACITYAfter Clause 59, insert the following new clause—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
"(i) publishing, in any manner the Public Guardian thinks appropriate, any information he thinks appropriate about the discharge of his functions"Page 31, line 27, at end insert—
"(i) publishing, in any manner the Public Guardian thinks appropriate, any information he thinks appropriate about the discharge of his functions"moved Amendment No. 104:
"(i) publishing, in any manner the Public Guardian thinks appropriate, any information he thinks appropriate about the discharge of his functions"Page 31, line 27, at end insert—
"(i) publishing, in any manner the Public Guardian thinks appropriate, any information he thinks appropriate about the discharge of his functions"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1544: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, wants a board and so do I. The prevailing events of the past week have prevented us reaching the final wording, but I suspect that, given another half hour, we would be there. Hence, an amendment has not been laid properly before your Lordships' House; but I shall indeed table one at Third
1544Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Cancellation of registrationAmendment No. 107A not moved.1550: My Lords, I am grateful for the kite-flying expedition. I feel that it has been worth the process, so I have to pay tribute to the officials and parliamentary counsel who drafted this. It was a huge piece of work, because it is so broad. In a sense, its purpose was to resolve the matter by secondary legislation. The procedure is that the Government do not go against the Delegated Powers Committee—the House can choose to, if it wished, but it is clear that the House does not.Cancellation of registrationAmendment No. 107A not moved.1550Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Interpretation1551Page 45, line 38, leave out paragraph 7.moved Amendment No. 108:
Interpretation1551Page 45, line 38, leave out paragraph 7.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Page 33, line 29, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"""the Human Rights Convention" has the same meaning as "the Convention" in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42),"Page 33, line 28, at end insert—
""the Human Rights Convention" has the same meaning as "the Convention" in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42),"moved Amendments Nos. 109 and 110:
Page 33, line 29, leave out "consultee" and insert "mental capacity advocate"""the Human Rights Convention" has the same meaning as "the Convention" in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42),"Page 33, line 28, at end insert—
""the Human Rights Convention" has the same meaning as "the Convention" in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42),"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1552Bournewood""prescribed", in relation to regulations made under this Act, means prescribed by those regulations,"Page 33, line 40, at end insert—
""prescribed", in relation to regulations made under this Act, means prescribed by those regulations,"moved Amendment No. 111:
1552Bournewood""prescribed", in relation to regulations made under this Act, means prescribed by those regulations,"Page 33, line 40, at end insert—
""prescribed", in relation to regulations made under this Act, means prescribed by those regulations,"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendment No. 114 not moved.Rules, regulations and ordersAmendment No. 113 not moved.""public authority" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42)."Page 34, line 2, at end insert—
""public authority" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42)."moved Amendment No. 112:
Amendment No. 114 not moved.Rules, regulations and ordersAmendment No. 113 not moved.""public authority" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42)."Page 34, line 2, at end insert—
""public authority" has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42)."Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendment No. 116 not moved."( ) A statutory instrument containing an Order in Council under paragraph 32 of Schedule 3 (provision to give further effect to Hague Convention) is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament."Page 34, line 30, at end insert—
"( ) A statutory instrument containing an Order in Council under paragraph 32 of Schedule 3 (provision to give further effect to Hague Convention) is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament."(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research project
(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research projectPage 34, line 27, leave out from "than" to "is" in line 29 and insert"—
(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research project
(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research projectmoved Amendments Nos. 114A and 115:
Amendment No. 116 not moved."( ) A statutory instrument containing an Order in Council under paragraph 32 of Schedule 3 (provision to give further effect to Hague Convention) is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament."Page 34, line 30, at end insert—
"( ) A statutory instrument containing an Order in Council under paragraph 32 of Schedule 3 (provision to give further effect to Hague Convention) is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament."(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research project
(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research projectPage 34, line 27, leave out from "than" to "is" in line 29 and insert"—
(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research project
(e) an order under section 64 (commencement),(d) an order of the kind mentioned in section 63(6) (consequential amendments of primary legislation), or(c) regulations under paragraph 33(1)(b) of Schedule 3 (private international law relating to the protection of adults),(b) regulations under section 39 (adjusting role of independent mental capacity advocacy service),Loss of capacity daring research project(a) regulations under section (Loss of capacity daring research projectBaroness Ashton of Upholland
Existing receivers and enduring powers of attorney etc.Loss of capacity during research projectPage 34, line 32, leave out "section 39" and insert "section (Loss of capacity during research projectmoved Amendment No. 116A:
Existing receivers and enduring powers of attorney etc.Loss of capacity during research projectPage 34, line 32, leave out "section 39" and insert "section (Loss of capacity during research projectBaroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendment No. 119 not moved.Minor and consequential amendments and repealsPage 34, line 41, leave out "this Act" and insert "subsection (1)(b)"Page 34, line 39, leave out "this Act" and insert "subsection (1)(b)"moved Amendments Nos. 117 and 118:
Amendment No. 119 not moved.Minor and consequential amendments and repealsPage 34, line 41, leave out "this Act" and insert "subsection (1)(b)"Page 34, line 39, leave out "this Act" and insert "subsection (1)(b)"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Minor and consequential amendmentsPage 35, line 15, at end insert "or Measure"1553Page 35, line 12, after first "Act" insert "or Measure".moved Amendments Nos. 120 and 121:
Minor and consequential amendmentsPage 35, line 15, at end insert "or Measure"1553Page 35, line 12, after first "Act" insert "or Measure".Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendments Nos. 123 and 124 not moved.Page 73, line 31, leave out "Seeking advice from independent consultee" and insert "Instructing independent mental capacity advocate"moved Amendment No. 122:
Amendments Nos. 123 and 124 not moved.Page 73, line 31, leave out "Seeking advice from independent consultee" and insert "Instructing independent mental capacity advocate"Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendment No. 126 not moved.commencement and extent(5C) if the individual is not a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (1) (other than paragraph (b)) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron.""1554(5B) If the individual is a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (5) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron."(5A) Subsections (5B) and (5C) apply where the functions of a registered patron are, as a result of paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (patron's loss of capacity to discharge functions), to be discharged by an individual appointed by the Court of Protection.(3) In section 9 (information to be sent to designated officer when benefice becomes vacant), after subsection (5) insert—
(5C) if the individual is not a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (1) (other than paragraph (b)) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron.""1554(5B) If the individual is a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (5) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron."(5A) Subsections (5B) and (5C) apply where the functions of a registered patron are, as a result of paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (patron's loss of capacity to discharge functions), to be discharged by an individual appointed by the Court of Protection."(3A) The reference in subsection (3) to a power of attorney does not include an enduring power of attorney or lasting power of attorney (within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005)."(2) In section 5 (rights of patronage exercisable otherwise than by registered patron), after subsection (3) insert—
"(3A) The reference in subsection (3) to a power of attorney does not include an enduring power of attorney or lasting power of attorney (within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005)."(1) The Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 3) is amended as follows."Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)"Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)Page 77, line 37, at end insert—
"Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)"Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)moved Amendment No. 125:
Amendment No. 126 not moved.commencement and extent(5C) if the individual is not a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (1) (other than paragraph (b)) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron.""1554(5B) If the individual is a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (5) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron."(5A) Subsections (5B) and (5C) apply where the functions of a registered patron are, as a result of paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (patron's loss of capacity to discharge functions), to be discharged by an individual appointed by the Court of Protection.(3) In section 9 (information to be sent to designated officer when benefice becomes vacant), after subsection (5) insert—
(5C) if the individual is not a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (1) (other than paragraph (b)) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron.""1554(5B) If the individual is a clerk in Holy Orders, subsection (5) applies to him as it applies to the registered patron."(5A) Subsections (5B) and (5C) apply where the functions of a registered patron are, as a result of paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (patron's loss of capacity to discharge functions), to be discharged by an individual appointed by the Court of Protection."(3A) The reference in subsection (3) to a power of attorney does not include an enduring power of attorney or lasting power of attorney (within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005)."(2) In section 5 (rights of patronage exercisable otherwise than by registered patron), after subsection (3) insert—
"(3A) The reference in subsection (3) to a power of attorney does not include an enduring power of attorney or lasting power of attorney (within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005)."(1) The Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 3) is amended as follows."Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)"Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)Page 77, line 37, at end insert—
"Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)"Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 (No. 1)Baroness Ashton of Upholland
Amendment No. 127 not moved.Page 35, line 19, after "Act" insert", other than sections 30 to 39,moved Amendment No. 126A:
Amendment No. 127 not moved.Page 35, line 19, after "Act" insert", other than sections 30 to 39,Baroness Ashton of Upholland
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, and
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, and"( ) Sections 30 to 39 come into force in accordance with provision made by order by—
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, and
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, andPage 35, line 20, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 128:
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, and
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, and"( ) Sections 30 to 39 come into force in accordance with provision made by order by—
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, and
(b) the National Assembly for Wales, in relation to Wales."(a) the Secretary of State, in relation to England, andPage 35, line 20, at end insert—Baroness Ashton of Upholland
sub judice,: My Lords, there was nothing complacent in my answer. I said that there was no evidence of a widespread problem and that when the cases, which are now sub judice,Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, indeed. We have a good track record in the UK of observers going out to other countries. I think it is absolutely right and proper that we should invite people to observe how we proceed here.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
1438: My Lords, I agree wholeheartedly with what the noble Lord said about the need to educate people. We need to ensure that people understand the importance and value of voting—how incredibly important it is to exercise your
1438Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, that is a very interesting idea. I shall certainly pass it on to my ministerial colleagues.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
sub judice.: My Lords, I am not sure it is for me to give advice to observers. I think it is for the observers to determine where best they can use their skills and expertise and to look at the elections. There is no evidence of widespread postal voting fraud or that postal voting is inherently less secure. We have cases that are currently sub judice.Baroness Ashton of Upholland
: My Lords, it has not been the practice of the UK Government formally to appoint observers at UK elections, However, we are aware that observers, for example, from the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe, have been invited to be present to observe previous election campaigns in the past. We intend to extend a similar invitation when the next election is called.The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Department for Constitutional Affairs (Baroness Ashton of apholland)
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do adjourn during pleasure until 2.28 p.m.Baroness Crawley
Page 17, line 22, leave out "Secretary of State" and insert "appropriate authority"moved Amendment No. 56:
Page 17, line 22, leave out "Secretary of State" and insert "appropriate authority"Baroness Andrews
(b) in relation to the carrying out of research in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales."(a) in relation to the carrying out of research in England, the Secretary of State, and
(b) in relation to the carrying out of research in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales."(a) in relation to the carrying out of research in England, the Secretary of State, andLoss of capacity during research project"(6) In this section, section 32 and section (Loss of capacity during research projectPage 17, line 30, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 57:
(b) in relation to the carrying out of research in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales."(a) in relation to the carrying out of research in England, the Secretary of State, and
(b) in relation to the carrying out of research in Wales, the National Assembly for Wales."(a) in relation to the carrying out of research in England, the Secretary of State, andLoss of capacity during research project"(6) In this section, section 32 and section (Loss of capacity during research projectPage 17, line 30, at end insert—Baroness Andrews
1502"research of comparable effectiveness cannot be carried out if the project has to be confined to, or relate only to, persons who have capacity to consent".1501"reasonable grounds for believing that the research would not be as effective if carried out only on … persons who have capacity".1500(2A) "Impairing condition" means a condition which is (or may be) attributable to, or which causes or contributes to (or may cause or contribute to), the impairment of, or disturbance in the functioning of, the mind or brain."(b) its treatment.(a) an impairing condition affecting P, or
(b) its treatment.(a) an impairing condition affecting P, or"(2) The research must be connected with—Page 17, line 36, leave out subsection (2) and insert—moved Amendment No. 58:
1502"research of comparable effectiveness cannot be carried out if the project has to be confined to, or relate only to, persons who have capacity to consent".1501"reasonable grounds for believing that the research would not be as effective if carried out only on … persons who have capacity".1500(2A) "Impairing condition" means a condition which is (or may be) attributable to, or which causes or contributes to (or may cause or contribute to), the impairment of, or disturbance in the functioning of, the mind or brain."(b) its treatment.(a) an impairing condition affecting P, or
(b) its treatment.(a) an impairing condition affecting P, or"(2) The research must be connected with—Page 17, line 36, leave out subsection (2) and insert—Baroness Andrews
Amendment No. 62 not moved.Page 18, line 26, leave out "Secretary of State" and insert "appropriate authority"moved Amendment No. 61:
Amendment No. 62 not moved.Page 18, line 26, leave out "Secretary of State" and insert "appropriate authority"Baroness Andrews
Additional safeguardsPage 19, line 13, leave out "concerned in P's treatment or care" and insert "involved in the organisation or conduct of the research project"moved Amendment No. 63:
Additional safeguardsPage 19, line 13, leave out "concerned in P's treatment or care" and insert "involved in the organisation or conduct of the research project"Baroness Andrews
15191518Page 19, line 25, leave out from "he" to ", or" in line 26 and insert "appears to object (whether by showing signs of resistance or otherwise) except where what is being done is intended to protect him from harm or to reduce or prevent pain or discomfort"moved Amendment No. 64:
15191518Page 19, line 25, leave out from "he" to ", or" in line 26 and insert "appears to object (whether by showing signs of resistance or otherwise) except where what is being done is intended to protect him from harm or to reduce or prevent pain or discomfort"Baroness Andrews
"(5) But neither subsection (3) nor subsection (4) requires treatment that P has been receiving as part of the project to be discontinued if R has reasonable grounds for believing that there would be a significant risk to P's health if it were discontinued."Page 19, line 37, at end insert—
"(5) But neither subsection (3) nor subsection (4) requires treatment that P has been receiving as part of the project to be discontinued if R has reasonable grounds for believing that there would be a significant risk to P's health if it were discontinued.""( ) The interests of the person must be assumed to outweigh those of science and society."Page 19, line 31, at end insert—
"( ) The interests of the person must be assumed to outweigh those of science and society."moved Amendments Nos. 65 and 66:
"(5) But neither subsection (3) nor subsection (4) requires treatment that P has been receiving as part of the project to be discontinued if R has reasonable grounds for believing that there would be a significant risk to P's health if it were discontinued."Page 19, line 37, at end insert—
"(5) But neither subsection (3) nor subsection (4) requires treatment that P has been receiving as part of the project to be discontinued if R has reasonable grounds for believing that there would be a significant risk to P's health if it were discontinued.""( ) The interests of the person must be assumed to outweigh those of science and society."Page 19, line 31, at end insert—
"( ) The interests of the person must be assumed to outweigh those of science and society."Baroness Andrews
152315221521(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;
(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;(3) The regulations may, in particular,—
(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;
(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,
(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,(2) The appropriate authority may by regulations provide that, despite P's loss of capacity, research of a prescribed kind may be carried out on, or in relation to, P if—
(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,
(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but
(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but(1) This section applies where a person ("P")—
(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but
(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but"LOSS OF CAPACITY DURING RESEARCH PROJECTAfter Clause 33, insert the following new clause—moved Amendment No. 67:
152315221521(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;
(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;(3) The regulations may, in particular,—
(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;
(b) include provision similar to any made by section 31, 32 or 33."(a) make provision about when, for the purposes of the regulations, a project is to be treated as having begun;(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,
(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,(2) The appropriate authority may by regulations provide that, despite P's loss of capacity, research of a prescribed kind may be carried out on, or in relation to, P if—
(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,
(c) the person conducting the project takes in relation to P such steps as may be prescribed for the purpose of protecting him.(b) any information or material relating to P which is used in the research is of a prescribed description and was obtained before P's loss of capacity, and(a) the project satisfies prescribed requirements,(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but
(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but(1) This section applies where a person ("P")—
(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but
(b) before the conclusion of the project, loses capacity to consent to continue to take part in it.(a) has consented to take part in a research protect begun before the commencement of section 30, but"LOSS OF CAPACITY DURING RESEARCH PROJECTAfter Clause 33, insert the following new clause—Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, I am no parliamentary draftsman, but I can see that that might have exactly the same, if not more, difficulties than the words "of any kind". It is as long as a piece of string. Obviously, in legislation we want to be as clear and as tight as possible.Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, there was something that I forgot to say to the noble Lord. We take the point that he makes. The best that we can do is ensure that those terms are fully and properly explained in the code of practice and the guidance that is offered.Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, perhaps I may conclude what I was going to say. As it is constructed, the noble Baroness's amendment causes major problems. I hope that what I have said about the nature of the definitions in terms of not being connected, and the protections that we will offer for people who are bereft of friends or connections, will satisfy the noble Baroness that we have addressed her concerns in respect of Amendments Nos. 60 and 62 and that she will feel able to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Andrews
1503: My Lords, I have not got the biomedicine convention in front of me, but I quoted it,
1503Baroness Andrews
Page 17, line 40, leave out from "that" to end of line 42 and insert "research of comparable effectiveness cannot be carried out if the project has to be confined to, or relate only to, persons who have capacity to consent to taking part in it"moved Amendment No. 59:
Page 17, line 40, leave out from "that" to end of line 42 and insert "research of comparable effectiveness cannot be carried out if the project has to be confined to, or relate only to, persons who have capacity to consent to taking part in it"Baroness Andrews
1516"no connection with the project".1515"Were such research to be banned altogether, progress in the battles to maintain and improve health and to combat diseases only afflicting children, mentally disabled persons or persons suffering from dementia would become impossible".151415131512: My Lords, we have had a wide-ranging debate, as we did in Committee, on the ethics and principles of research and how it fits into the Bill, particularly with the concerns raised by the noble Baroness, Lady Knight.1516"no connection with the project".1515"Were such research to be banned altogether, progress in the battles to maintain and improve health and to combat diseases only afflicting children, mentally disabled persons or persons suffering from dementia would become impossible".151415131512Baroness Andrews
: My Lords, I shall just anticipate the Minister's answer. On the basis that the Government are to propose a revised version of what I believe is an excellent suggestion from the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, I shall make two points.Baroness Barker
1549: My Lords, I do not wish to prolong the debate at this hour. I agree strongly with the noble Lord, Lord Carter, that the issue is desperate for a solution within a short space of time. Much in the Government's amendment is to be commended. I found myself reading it again the other night and thinking back to an argument that has raged ever since I have been in this House about "may". I wondered whether the Government might not have done themselves a favour to have used "must", particularly in relation to proposed new subsection (3).
1549Baroness Barker
1541: My Lords, I thank the Minister for the amendments that she has tabled in response to the points that were made in Committee. I welcome in particular Amendment No. 104.1541Baroness Barker
: My Lords, I support the noble Baroness, Lady Greengross, on these amendments. As she said, they not only provide the Minister with a workable solution but they also reflect what happens in real life.Baroness Barker
1530: My Lords, I want to take the opportunity to ask the noble Baroness something about this amendment to Clause 39. In her introduction to it, she said that it would extend the scope for local authorities and primary care trusts to go beyond what is now the minimum. Am I right to assume from her comments that that is the power that will enable local authorities to extend the independent mental capacity advocacy services to people who are not, in the words of the Bill, "the unbefriended", but who may find themselves caught in an extremely difficult situation—perhaps as a result of their relationships with their families or with organisations such as those that are involved in their care?1530Baroness Barker
Appointment of independent consultees1524: My Lords, I apologise for having had to be absent for much of today's proceedings. However, I also thank the noble Baroness. I thank her, too, for answering the two questions I had jotted down about positive procedures and consultation. I do not think that anyone in this House is under any illusion about how controversial this subject is. I hope that the time period for the consultation will be sufficiently
Appointment of independent consultees1524Baroness Barker
: My Lords, will the Minister tell the House why only 17 places are available for women with drug problems? How many of these women have young families for which they are responsible and which might very well contribute to their self-harming?Baroness Howe of Idlicote
Amendment No. 103 not moved.: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. While she has not said "yes" to what I hoped might be feasible, she certainly agrees in spirit and is working towards a solution to the concerns that I, and other noble Lords who have spoken on this issue, expressed. I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Amendment No. 103 not moved.Baroness Greengross
15361535"( ) in conjunction with the Department for Work and Pensions, establishing and maintaining a register of appointees appointed by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions"Page 31, line 10, at end insert—
"( ) in conjunction with the Department for Work and Pensions, establishing and maintaining a register of appointees appointed by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions"moved Amendment No. 102A:
15361535"( ) in conjunction with the Department for Work and Pensions, establishing and maintaining a register of appointees appointed by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions"Page 31, line 10, at end insert—
"( ) in conjunction with the Department for Work and Pensions, establishing and maintaining a register of appointees appointed by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions"Baroness Greengross
: My Lords, in view of the Minister's positive but slightly disappointing comments, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment.Baroness Greengross
1493"( ) Any registered provider, manager or member of staff of a service registered within the terms of the Care Standards Act 2000 (c. 14) will not be permitted to assume a lasting power of attorney for any person to whom they provide care in a paid capacity."Page 7, line 14, at end insert—moved Amendment No. 39:
1493"( ) Any registered provider, manager or member of staff of a service registered within the terms of the Care Standards Act 2000 (c. 14) will not be permitted to assume a lasting power of attorney for any person to whom they provide care in a paid capacity."Page 7, line 14, at end insert—Baroness Greengross
: My Lords, I thank the Minister for that reply. There is concern that an increasingly large number of women are dying from self-inflicted deaths in prison. The number has risen even faster than the number of women sent to prison. How can we be confident that the advice from coroners and from the prisons ombudsman over quite a long period on the need for special monitoring of fragile prisoners during the first few days of their sentences, and the criticisms of procedures within prisons, particularly with regard to the self-harm and suicide form, have had the desired effect? Have the Government considered whether the Dutch experience of sentencing women, or the new Scottish approach with its pilot study in Glasgow, could be studied with the possibility of following those examples in England?Baroness Thomas of Walliswood
asked Her Majesty's Government:Baroness Thomas of Walliswood
: My Lords, I think I made the Government's position absolutely clear in my Answer. Control orders will be used sparingly and only where necessary in the interests of public safety. We have made it absolutely clear that where individuals are suspected of involvement in terrorist acts the police will seek to gather the evidence necessary to secure a conviction in court. That remains the Government's preferred method. I cannot, of course, speculate on possible applications in individual cases but, as I said, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will consider the matter very carefully.Baroness Amos
1439: My Lords, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will be considering carefully the application of the powers of the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005 to
1439The Lord President of the Council (Baroness Amos)
: My Lords, I know that the noble Lord, Lord Smith of Clifton, does not really expect me to speculate on those matters. The Government are absolutely clear that the McCartney family deserve justice. We will continue to call on all those with information to come forward to assist the investigation. Justice means proper investigation and proper judicial process.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I entirely agree with my noble friend Lord Dubs that the police need to be given time to conduct investigations. They also need to be given the resources, and we have been assured that they are available. I see the noble Baroness, Lady Harris, nodding, because I know that she frequently asks that question. I can also tell my noble friend that the strong line being taken by the family in the McCartney case in seeking to secure justice is being supported by the people of Northern Ireland, who are themselves putting pressure on the criminals in that regard.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I can only repeat what I said in my original Answer: the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will consider carefully the application of the powers. The Act has only just been passed. but the Government's preferred method, which we made absolutely clear when the legislation was going through the House, is for the police to gather the evidence necessary to secure a conviction in court. That remains the position.Baroness Amos
: My Lords, I feel a bit like a broken record, repeating the Government's position. Our position when the legislation was going through this House, and now, is that we prefer to secure a conviction in court. We have always made it absolutely clear that this legislation will be used sparingly. I cannot comment on what might be hypothetical situations.Baroness Amos
(Baroness Amos.)[11 th Report from the Joint Committee].: My Lords, I beg to move the four Motions standing in my name on the Order Paper.(Baroness Amos.)[11 th Report from the Joint Committee].Baroness Amos
1494: My Lords, I rise to support my noble friend Lady Greengross. I do not want to speak to the amendment at length; my noble friend has made the arguments. I simply want to add that it is also a protection for people in care homes and in domiciliary care themselves.1494Baroness Howarth of Breckland
: My Lords, I know that the House is anxious to get on, but I want to add my voice to those who are disappointed that the amendment is not going forward. Not being a procedural expert, I am always totally impressed when the noble Earl tells us that it is not possible for an amendment to do so. We do not want other incidents like Bournewood to happen. We need something in place that gives guidance. I would like to press the Minister for some idea on when and how that might be brought forward.Baroness Howarth of Breckland
: My Lords, although I have not been able to be here all afternoon, I have specifically come back to support the noble Lord, Lord Kingsland, on this amendment. This stems from my own personal experience as a member of a non-departmental public body—and, indeed, a non-ministerial department—the Food Standards Agency, and CAFCASS, but it is to CAFCASS that I particularly want to refer.Baroness Howarth of Breckland
: My Lords, the Minister will be aware that Sarah Campbell was one of many drug-dependent women in prison. Probably one-half of all women in prison are seriously drug-dependent. Does he agree with me that to offer drug treatment as an alternative would be a good option for many of them and would provide a way out of their lives of drugs, crime and imprisonment, which is a vicious circle? If so, will he confirm that there are only 17 women-only residential drug treatment places in the whole of England and Wales?Baroness Stern
1437: My Lords, the Minister and the noble Lord, Lord Campbell-Savours, were both thinking of observers coming to learn from us. In the new circumstances, to which the noble Lord, Lord Greaves,
1437Lord Cope of Berkeley
